.TH SINGINE-DEMO 1 "2026-03-19" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-demo \- notebook-friendly demo bundles for messaging, multilingual zip-code data, and publication artefacts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine demo
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine demo
writes concrete demo bundles that align Singine's messaging and publication
surfaces. The current stable command is
.BR zip-neighborhood ,
which produces:
.IP \(bu 2
RabbitMQ raw messages
.IP \(bu 2
RabbitMQ staging messages
.IP \(bu 2
Kafka stream payloads
.IP \(bu 2
Markdown, XML, JSON, and MediaWiki publication fragments
.IP \(bu 2
optional SQLite domain-event logging
.PP
The demo is designed to be importable from notebooks and to match the local
messaging stack under
.IR docker/docker-compose.messaging.yml .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B zip-neighborhood
Write the full zip-code neighborhood messaging bundle.
.TP
.B bundle
Alias for
.BR zip-neighborhood .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --title
Override the demo title.
.TP
.B --output-dir
Directory where the demo bundle is written.
Defaults to
.IR /tmp/singine-zip-neighborhood-demo .
.TP
.B --db
Optional SQLite database path used for domain-event logging.
.TP
.B --actor-id
Actor identifier used in the optional event log.
Defaults to
.IR singine .
.TP
.B --json
Print the manifest as JSON instead of printing the main Markdown path.
.SH OUTPUT
The bundle contains:
.IP \(bu 2
.I rabbitmq/raw/*.json
.IP \(bu 2
.I rabbitmq/staging/*.json
.IP \(bu 2
.I kafka/topic.json
.IP \(bu 2
.I publication/demo.md
.IP \(bu 2
.I publication/demo.xml
.IP \(bu 2
.I publication/demo.json
.IP \(bu 2
.I publication/demo.mediawiki
.IP \(bu 2
.I manifest.json
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Write the bundle and print the Markdown path.
singine demo zip-neighborhood

# Write the bundle and log domain events.
singine demo zip-neighborhood \\
  --output-dir /tmp/singine-zip-neighborhood-demo \\
  --db /tmp/singine-demo.db \\
  --json

# Compatibility alias.
singine demo bundle --json
.fi
.SH NOTEBOOK USE
The same data model can be imported directly in Python:
.PP
.nf
import singine
from singine.zip_neighborhood_demo import build_zip_neighborhood_demo

demo = build_zip_neighborhood_demo()
demo["messages"]["kafka"][0]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-platform (1),
.BR singine-transfer (1),
.BR singine-domain (1)
