.TH SINGINE-DECIDE 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-decide \- send a governance decision request to a Singine server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine decide
\fIID\fR [\fB--decision\fR \fITYPE\fR] [\fB--reason\fR \fITEXT\fR] [\fB--server\fR \fIURL\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Posts a decision request for an asset or document ID to the Singine server's
.I /decide
endpoint and prints the returned decision envelope.
.PP
When the Singine server is not running, the command falls back automatically to
writing a local JSON record at:
.nf
{cwd}/{ID}_decision.json
.fi
.PP
This offline fallback ensures that governance decisions made during AI sessions
are always persisted, even when the decision server is unavailable.
The offline record has the same structure as the server response and can be
ingested into the bridge later via
.BR singine-bridge (1).
.PP
AI conversation sessions can be registered with a governance decision using the
session ID as the document ID:
.nf
singine decide SESSION-ID --decision approve --reason "Session audit complete"
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --decision
One of
.IR approve ,
.IR reject ,
.IR defer ,
.IR escalate ,
or
.IR pending .
.TP
.B --reason
Optional note attached to the decision.
.TP
.B --server \fIURL\fR
Server base URL. Default is
.IR http://localhost:8080 .
.TP
.B --json
Emit raw JSON.
.SH OFFLINE FALLBACK
When the server at
.I --server
is unreachable, a decision record is written to:
.nf
{cwd}/{ID}_decision.json
.fi
.PP
The offline record contains:
.IP \(bu 2
.B id
\(em the document or session ID passed on the command line
.IP \(bu 2
.B decision
\(em the decision type
.IP \(bu 2
.B reason
\(em the optional rationale text
.IP \(bu 2
.B decided_at
\(em ISO 8601 timestamp
.IP \(bu 2
.B server_url
\(em the server URL that was attempted
.IP \(bu 2
.B fallback
\(em
.B true
indicating offline mode
.PP
These JSON files can be ingested into the semantic bridge once the server comes
online, or treated as the canonical record when no server is configured.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Standard online decision.
singine decide sind0c --decision approve --reason "validated source"

# Offline-capable decision (falls back to JSON if server unreachable).
singine decide doc-42 --decision defer --server http://localhost:8080 --json

# Record a governance decision for a completed AI conversation session.
singine decide 2026-03-16-china-debt-timeline \\
  --decision approve \\
  --reason "Dataset pipeline delivered and artefacts verified"

# Record a pending decision for review.
singine decide china-us-debt-timeline \\
  --decision pending \\
  --reason "Awaiting Collibra catalog registration"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-policy (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1)
