.TH SINGINE-AI 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-ai \- governed AI session recording and conversation-data centralisation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine ai claude
[\fB--model\fR \fIMODEL\fR] [\fB--session\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--mandate\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--resume\fR] [\fB--continue\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai codex
[\fB--model\fR \fIMODEL\fR] [\fB--session\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--mandate\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--resume\fR] [\fB--continue\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai openai
[\fB--model\fR \fIMODEL\fR] [\fB--session\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--mandate\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--resume\fR] [\fB--continue\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai session list
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai session overview
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--provider\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai session show
\fIID\fR [\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai status
[\fB--json\fR]
.PP
.B singine ai last session data
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine ai
provides a governed session shell for Claude, Codex, and OpenAI.
Each conversation is persisted as Singine data with:
.IP \(bu 2
session id
.IP \(bu 2
provider and model
.IP \(bu 2
session URN
.IP \(bu 2
provider object reference for later API mapping
.IP \(bu 2
ordered user and assistant interactions
.IP \(bu 2
mandates granted during the session
.PP
Provider API execution is not performed yet.
The current implementation records the session shape so it can later be mapped
to real provider-side session or response objects through Claude or OpenAI
APIs.
.PP
The
.B --resume
and
.B --continue
flags mirror the equivalent flags in the
.B claude
CLI (Claude Code), applied to the Singine-governed session layer.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B claude | codex | openai
Open an interactive governed session shell for the named provider.
The shell records interactions to
.IR interactions.json ,
mandates to
.IR mandates.json ,
and session metadata to
.IR manifest.json .
If
.B --db
is provided, the session is synced into SQLite on close.
.RS
.TP
.B --resume
Show an interactive numbered picker of previously recorded sessions for this
provider and reopen the selected one.
Mirrors
.B claude --resume
in the Claude Code CLI.
.TP
.B --continue
Reopen the most recently recorded session for this provider without prompting.
Mirrors
.B claude --continue
in the Claude Code CLI.
.RE
.TP
.B session list
List recorded sessions under
.IR ~/.singine/ai/sessions/
or the overridden
.BR --root-dir .
Output is JSON.
.TP
.B session overview
Print a human-readable table of all recorded sessions showing session id,
provider, model, status, start time, interaction count, and mandate count.
Use
.B --provider
to filter to a single provider.
This is the overview equivalent of the
.B claude --resume
session picker.
.TP
.B session show \fIID\fR
Show the full recorded session bundle: manifest, interactions, and mandates.
.TP
.B status
Show configured AI provider registry information.
.TP
.B last session data
Load the most recent recorded session, sync it into
.I sqlite.db
and print the full session bundle.
.SH INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
Inside a provider session:
.TP
.B /mandate \fIACTION RESOURCE [NOTE]\fR
Record a granted mandate for the session.
.TP
.B /meta \fIKEY=VALUE\fR
Attach metadata to the session manifest.
.TP
.B /exit
Close the session and persist the end timestamp.
.SH MAPPING TO CLAUDE CODE CLI
.TS
l l l.
Claude Code	singine ai claude	Notes
\fBclaude --resume\fR	\fBsingine ai claude --resume\fR	Interactive picker, filtered to claude sessions
\fBclaude --continue\fR	\fBsingine ai claude --continue\fR	Reopens latest claude session
\fBclaude --resume\fR (overview)	\fBsingine ai session overview --provider claude\fR	Human-readable table without entering a session
\fBclaude --resume ID\fR	\fBsingine ai claude --session ID\fR	Reopen a specific session by id
.TE
.SH STORAGE MODEL
Default root:
.nf
~/.singine/ai/
.fi
.PP
Per-session layout:
.nf
~/.singine/ai/sessions/{session-id}/
  manifest.json
  interactions.json
  mandates.json
.fi
.PP
Default SQLite centralisation target:
.nf
~/.singine/ai/sqlite.db
.fi
.PP
The SQLite file contains:
.nf
ai_sessions
ai_interactions
ai_mandates
.fi
.SH DATA FLOW
.B Step 1 — Start a provider session
.nf
singine ai claude --model claude-sonnet-4-6
singine ai codex --model gpt-5-codex
singine ai openai --model gpt-4o
.fi
.PP
.B Step 2 — Discover recorded sessions (overview)
.nf
singine ai session overview
singine ai session overview --provider claude
.fi
.PP
.B Step 3 — Resume or continue a session
.nf
singine ai claude --resume          # interactive picker
singine ai claude --continue        # latest claude session
.fi
.PP
.B Step 4 — Inspect one session in full
.nf
singine ai session show SESSION-ID
.fi
.PP
.B Step 5 — Sync the latest session into SQLite
.nf
singine ai last session data --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
.fi
.PP
.B Step 6 — Access the centralised data
.nf
singine jdbc-url --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine bridge sources --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine bridge search --db /tmp/singine-ai.db "claude"
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Start a governed Claude conversation.
singine ai claude --model claude-sonnet-4-6

# Resume a previous Claude session interactively (like claude --resume).
singine ai claude --resume

# Continue the most recent Claude session (like claude --continue).
singine ai claude --continue

# Overview of all sessions across providers.
singine ai session overview

# Overview filtered to Claude sessions only.
singine ai session overview --provider claude

# Start a governed Codex conversation and sync it on close.
singine ai codex \\
  --model gpt-5-codex \\
  --root-dir /tmp/singine-ai \\
  --db /tmp/singine-ai/sqlite.db

# List all recorded sessions (JSON).
singine ai session list --root-dir /tmp/singine-ai

# Show one session in full.
singine ai session show 123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000 \\
  --root-dir /tmp/singine-ai

# Centralise the latest session bundle.
singine ai last session data \\
  --root-dir /tmp/singine-ai \\
  --db /tmp/singine-ai/sqlite.db

# Access the centralised conversation data.
singine bridge sources --db /tmp/singine-ai/sqlite.db
singine jdbc-url --db /tmp/singine-ai/sqlite.db
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1),
.BR singine-jdbc-url (1),
.BR singine-policy (1)
