.TH SINGINE 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine \- top-level command index for the Singine platform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine
is the top-level entry point for the Singine platform. This page is an index of
top-level commands only. Each command has its own dedicated manpage for details,
subcommands, options, and examples.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B context
Inspect terminal context and sourced environment.
.TP
.B bridge
SQLite and JDBC bridge operations.
Merges local Singine, AI session, Silkpage, and Collibra data into a single
queryable store.
See
.BR singine-bridge (1).
.TP
.B jdbc-url
Print the JDBC URL for the bridge database.
.TP
.B xml
Generate XML request, response, and heatmap artifacts.
.TP
.B man
Open a Singine manpage by topic.
See
.BR singine-man (1).
.TP
.B install
Install the launcher and bundled manpages.
.TP
.B template
Generate Singine-aware project templates for Maven and npm workflows.
See
.BR singine-template (1).
.TP
.B runtime
Inspect runtime capabilities and execute wrapped commands.
See
.BR singine-runtime (1).
.TP
.B server
Inspect or query the local Singine HTTP edge/server surface.
See
.BR singine-server (1).
.TP
.B logseq
Inspect or query the Logseq HTTP API surface used by Singine, discover local
Logseq graphs, and export them to Org mode and XML for Emacs-based processing.
See
.BR singine-logseq (1).
.TP
.B snapshot
Save the full Singine runtime, server, git, docker, Java, taxonomy, and Logseq context to JSON.
See
.BR singine-snapshot (1).
.TP
.B auth
Authentication bootstrap and TOTP login commands.
.TP
.B idp
Identity provider operations.
.TP
.B decide
Send a governance decision request.
Falls back to a local JSON record when the Singine server is not running.
See
.BR singine-decide (1).
.TP
.B model
Inspect Singine model objects and bridge surfaces.
.TP
.B policy
Manage governed policy packs and policy-backed execution workflows.
Covers Claude, Codex, and OpenAI-API systems.
See
.BR singine-policy (1).
.TP
.B domain
Domain layer \(em master data, event log, governed transactions, and reference
data, all backed by a shared SQLite database.
Types are aligned with the Singine metamodel and Collibra bridge asset families
.RI ( BusinessTerm ,
.IR BusinessCapability ,
.IR BusinessProcess ,
.IR DataCategory ,
.IR scenario-codes ,
.IR iata-codes ).
Interoperable with the Humble IDP Java domain layer
.RI ( idp.db
package) on the same SQLite file.
See
.BR singine-domain (1).
.TP
.B ai
Governed AI session recording, permission tracking, and session-data
centralisation for Claude, Codex, and OpenAI.
Every conversation is stored as a named session with a manifest, ordered
interactions, and mandates granted during the session.
Sessions can be listed, inspected, and synced into a local SQLite
bridge for JDBC and downstream Singine access.
See
.BR singine-ai (1).
.TP
.B activity
Inspect, instantiate, and evaluate activity taxonomy entries.
.TP
.B photo
Apple Photos queries, review exports, and deterministic test cases.
See
.BR singine-photo (1).
.TP
.B singe
Render governed identities from @mentions.
.TP
.B find
Find filesystem paths related to a topic via the
.I filesAboutTopic
activity.
.TP
.B mv
Move filesystem paths from stdin into a destination directory via the
.I fileListTo
activity.
.TP
.B transfer
File transfer and queue/stack helpers.
.TP
.B smtp
SMTP test and send helpers.
.SH AI CONVERSATION DATA
Singine records every AI conversation — regardless of provider — as a governed
session. The following command sequence covers the full journey from listing
sessions to centralising the data behind each conversation.
.SS 1. Start a governed provider session
.nf
singine ai claude --model claude-sonnet-4-6
singine ai codex --model gpt-5-codex
singine ai openai --model gpt-4o
.fi
.PP
Each session records a session id, provider, model, timestamps, a session URN,
a provider object reference for later API mapping, ordered interactions, and
mandates granted during the session.
.SS 2. List all recorded sessions
.nf
singine ai session list
.fi
.PP
Shows all recorded runtime sessions under
.IR ~/.singine/ai/sessions/ .
.SS 3. Inspect one session
.nf
singine ai session show SESSION-ID
.fi
.PP
Prints the full session bundle:
.IP \(bu 2
manifest
.IP \(bu 2
interactions
.IP \(bu 2
mandates
.SS 4. Check provider configuration
.nf
singine ai status
singine ai status --json
.fi
.PP
Reports configured AI providers.
.SS 5. Centralise sessions into SQLite
.nf
# Sync the most recent session into a named bridge database
singine ai last session data --db /tmp/singine-ai.db

# Or open an interactive session that auto-syncs on close
singine ai claude --model claude-sonnet-4-6 --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
.fi
.SS 6. Query centralised data via the bridge
.nf
singine bridge sources --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine bridge search --db /tmp/singine-ai.db "SESSION-TOPIC"
singine jdbc-url --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
.fi
.SS 7. Review governance decisions for a session
.nf
singine policy ai report --ai-system claude
singine policy ai report --ai-system codex
.fi
.SH POLICY SYNC
Singine's AI policy workflow is available through the top-level
.B singine policy ai
command family.
The canonical flow is:
.IP "1."
sync a canonical policy pack from LDAP or LDIF sources into a dedicated policy
repository with
.BR "singine policy ai sync" ;
.IP "2."
evaluate Claude or OpenAI/Codex requests against that synced pack with
.BR "singine policy ai evaluate" ;
.IP "3."
persist approvals for governed Collibra paths, repos, or lambda names when a
change is sanctioned with
.BR "singine policy ai approve" .
.SH TOPIC PAGES
Use
.B singine man
with one of these topics:
.IR singine-context ,
.IR singine-bridge ,
.IR singine-jdbc-url ,
.IR singine-xml ,
.IR singine-man ,
.IR singine-install ,
.IR singine-template ,
.IR singine-runtime ,
.IR singine-server ,
.IR singine-logseq ,
.IR singine-snapshot ,
.IR singine-auth ,
.IR singine-idp ,
.IR singine-decide ,
.IR singine-model ,
.IR singine-policy ,
.IR singine-ai ,
.IR singine-domain ,
.IR singine-activity ,
.IR singine-photo ,
.IR singine-singe ,
.IR singine-find ,
.IR singine-mv ,
.IR singine-transfer ,
or
.IR singine-smtp .
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Quick-start: start a governed Claude conversation.
singine ai claude --model claude-sonnet-4-6

# See all recorded AI sessions.
singine ai session list

# Inspect one recorded conversation.
singine ai session show SESSION-ID

# Centralise the latest session into a bridge database.
singine ai last session data --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine jdbc-url --db /tmp/singine-ai.db

# Create and run the deterministic photo review test case.
singine photo test-case /tmp/singine-photo-case
singine photo export-review /tmp/singine-photo-case/review-output \\
  --library-root /tmp/singine-photo-case/fixture-library.photoslibrary \\
  --db /tmp/singine-photo-case/fixture-library.photoslibrary/database/Photos.sqlite \\
  --max-kb 500 --max-dim 2560 --json

# Inspect centralised sources.
singine bridge sources --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine bridge search --db /tmp/singine-ai.db "claude"

# Scaffold a Maven or npm project with Singine-friendly defaults.
singine template create maven singine-spec-demo --dir ~/ws/git/local/singine-spec-demo
singine template create npm silkpage-spec-ui --dir ~/ws/git/local/silkpage-spec-ui --scope sindoc

# Evaluate a Claude request against the synced policy pack.
singine policy ai evaluate \\
  --policy-repo /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine-policy \\
  --ai-system claude \\
  --environment dev \\
  --network-mode offline \\
  --execution-env local \\
  --operation read \\
  --path /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/man/singine.1

# Inspect the local edge/server surface and save a full context snapshot.
singine server inspect --json
singine server health --json
singine server test-case /tmp/singine-server-case
singine snapshot save --json

# Query the Logseq API surface directly.
singine logseq inspect --json
singine logseq ping --token "$LOGSEQ_API_TOKEN" --json
singine logseq graphs --json
singine logseq export-org --graph kernel --output /tmp/kernel.org
singine logseq export-xml \\
  --graph kernel \\
  --org-output /tmp/kernel.org \\
  --xml-output /tmp/kernel.xml \\
  --om-to-xml-repo /Users/skh/ws/git/codeberg/ndw/org-to-xml \\
  --elisp-load-path /Users/skh/ws/git/github/ndwarshuis/org-ml \\
  --json
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1),
.BR singine-policy (1),
.BR singine-decide (1),
.BR singine-context (1),
.BR singine-jdbc-url (1),
.BR singine-xml (1),
.BR singine-man (1),
.BR singine-install (1),
.BR singine-runtime (1),
.BR singine-server (1),
.BR singine-logseq (1),
.BR singine-snapshot (1),
.BR singine-auth (1),
.BR singine-idp (1),
.BR singine-model (1),
.BR singine-domain (1),
.BR singine-activity (1),
.BR singine-singe (1),
.BR singine-find (1),
.BR singine-mv (1),
.BR singine-transfer (1),
.BR singine-smtp (1)
