.TH SINGINE-POLICY 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-policy \- manage governed policy packs and policy-backed execution workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine policy ai
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine policy
is the top-level policy management surface for Singine.
The
.B ai
family governs request evaluation and approval for Claude, Codex, and OpenAI
systems.
.PP
Policy and AI session permission data are complementary:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Policy
records define what a given AI system is
.I allowed
to do in advance (synced from LDAP/LDIF or YAML templates into a policy
repository).
.IP \(bu 2
.B Session permissions
(see
.BR singine-ai (1))
record what was
.I actually
approved, denied, or conditionally granted during a specific conversation.
.PP
Use
.B singine policy ai evaluate
to check a pending request against the policy pack before running it.
Use
.B "singine ai session show ID --permissions"
to review what was actually granted after the fact.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B template
Read a YAML policy template shaped around Collibra
.I AI Use Case
assets and show per-system policy information.
.TP
.B canonify
Generate canonical AI policy artefacts inside a policy repository.
.TP
.B sync
Generate policy artefacts, write the kernel link file, and commit the results
inside a dedicated git repository linked to the Singine kernel.
.TP
.B evaluate
Evaluate a request against the canonical AI policy pack.
Returns an allow/deny decision with the matched rule and rationale.
.TP
.B approve
Persist an approval for a governed request and link it to the policy lineage.
.TP
.B report
Show approvals, recent decisions, and invocation counters for an AI system.
.SH SESSION PERMISSION LINEAGE
For any conversation session, the full chain from policy pack to individual
permission grants can be traced as follows:
.PP
.B 1. Check the governing policy pack
.nf
singine policy ai report --ai-system claude
singine policy ai report --ai-system codex
.fi
.PP
.B 2. Show what was actually granted in a session
.nf
singine ai session show SESSION-ID --permissions
.fi
.PP
.B 3. Export the full permission record for audit
.nf
singine ai session export SESSION-ID --raw > SESSION-ID-audit.json
.fi
.PP
.B 4. Record a post-hoc governance decision for a session
.nf
singine decide SESSION-ID --decision approve --reason "Audit review complete"
.fi
.SH REPOSITORY MODEL
The
.B sync
workflow assumes a dedicated git repository for policy assets.
Generated artefacts are written under
.I policy/ai/current/
by default, and a
.I singine-kernel-link.json
manifest is maintained under
.I policy/ai/
to tie the policy repository back to the Singine kernel repository where
governed process execution and generated inputs and outputs integrate.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Canonify AI policy files into a dedicated policy repository.
singine policy ai canonify \\
  --policy-repo /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine-policy \\
  --ldap-ldif docs/examples/ldap-ai-groups.ldif \\
  --systems claude codex openai-api chatgpt

# List the AI systems described by a Collibra AI Use Case YAML template.
singine policy ai template \\
  --template-yaml docs/examples/ai-use-case-policy-template.yml

# Show the governed policies and AI use cases for one system from the YAML template.
singine policy ai template \\
  --template-yaml docs/examples/ai-use-case-policy-template.yml \\
  --ai-system codex

# Emit the same template view as JSON for automation or downstream Collibra import prep.
singine policy ai template \\
  --template-yaml docs/examples/ai-use-case-policy-template.yml \\
  --ai-system claude \\
  --json

# Sync the canonical policy pack into the policy repository and commit it.
singine policy ai sync \\
  --policy-repo /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine-policy \\
  --ldap-ldif docs/examples/ldap-ai-groups.ldif \\
  --systems claude codex openai-api chatgpt

# Evaluate a Claude request using the synced policy pack.
singine policy ai evaluate \\
  --policy-repo /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine-policy \\
  --ai-system claude \\
  --environment dev \\
  --network-mode offline \\
  --execution-env local \\
  --operation read \\
  --command-text "rg --files /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/man" \\
  --path /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/man/singine-policy.1

# Approve a governed Collibra execution request.
singine policy ai approve \\
  --policy-repo /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine-policy \\
  --ai-system codex \\
  --environment dev \\
  --network-mode lan \\
  --execution-env docker \\
  --operation execute \\
  --command-text "docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.edge.yml up -d --build" \\
  --repo-path /Users/skh/ws/collibra/edge \\
  --resource-grant-kind repo \\
  --granted-by singineer-dev \\
  --reason "Approved Collibra Edge policy sync and validation run"

# Show current governance state and invocation history for Claude and Codex.
singine policy ai report --ai-system claude
singine policy ai report --ai-system codex

# Full permission audit for a specific conversation session.
singine ai session show 2026-03-16-china-debt-timeline --permissions
singine ai session export 2026-03-16-china-debt-timeline --raw
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-decide (1),
.BR singine-man (1),
.BR singine-runtime (1)
