.TH SINGINE-MAN 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-man \- open Singine manpages by topic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine man
[\fITOPIC\fR] [\fB--raw\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Opens a manpage from Singine's bundled manual set. Without a topic, the main
.BR singine (1)
page is opened.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --raw
Print the filesystem path to the selected manpage instead of opening it with
.BR man (1).
.SH TOPICS
.TP
.B singine
Top-level command index and AI conversation data quick-start.
.TP
.B singine-ai
Governed AI session recording, permission tracking, and conversation-data
centralisation for Claude, Codex, and OpenAI.
Start here if you want to list, inspect, export, or centralise AI conversation
data.
.TP
.B singine-bridge
SQLite and JDBC bridge operations. Covers how to build the bridge, run SPARQL
queries, and query AI session data once it has been synced.
.TP
.B singine-policy
AI policy pack management: template, canonify, sync, evaluate, approve, report.
Covers the relationship between policy records and session permission records.
.TP
.B singine-decide
Governance decision requests. Covers online and offline (JSON fallback) modes.
Use this to register a decision against a completed AI session.
.TP
.B singine-context
Terminal context inspection and sourced environment.
.TP
.B singine-runtime
Runtime capability inspection and wrapped-command execution.
.TP
.B singine-server
Local Singine HTTP server defaults, health checks, and bridge facade queries.
.TP
.B singine-logseq
Logseq HTTP API defaults, token-aware ping, filesystem fallback notes, and
Org/XML export through Emacs and \fBom-to-xml.el\fR.
.TP
.B singine-snapshot
One-file Singine runtime/context snapshot with git, docker, Java, taxonomy, and Logseq metadata.
.TP
.B singine-model
Singine model objects and bridge surfaces.
.TP
.B singine-demo
Notebook-friendly demo bundles for RabbitMQ, Kafka, multilingual zip-code
mapping, and publication artefacts.
.TP
.B singine-platform
Platform blueprint and starter scaffold for Docker, OpenShift, Flowable,
Collibra attributes, Node.js, Python, and Spring Boot adapters.
.TP
.B singine-essay
Reflective essay bundle linking Logseq, Collibra, XML request/response,
Ballerina, C, Rust, Pico, SinLisp, SVG, LaTeX, and ixml surfaces.
.TP
.B singine-activity
Activity taxonomy: list, inspect, run, score. Covers DP(DP) meta-activities.
.TP
.B singine-photo
Apple Photos review exports, deterministic test cases, and multi-runner test
commands.
.TP
.B singine-jdbc-url
Print the JDBC URL for a bridge database.
.TP
.B singine-xml
XML matrix and artefact generation.
.TP
.B singine-auth
Authentication bootstrap and TOTP login.
.TP
.B singine-idp
Identity provider operations.
.TP
.B singine-install
Launcher and manpage installation.
.TP
.B singine-template
Generate project templates and materialize reusable bundle library entries.
.TP
.B singine-archetype
List and materialize higher-level reusable Singine archetypes such as
personal-os-essay and platform-blueprint.
.TP
.B singine-dotfiles
Inspect and capture shell startup files, vimrc, Dropbox, Claude, and Logseq
state into a controlled dotfiles repo.
.TP
.B singine-intranet
Generate local sindoc.local control pages, including the unified machine and
edge runtime control center, Silkpage-backed deploy output, and local TLS /
Firefox trust instructions.
.TP
.B singine-singe
Governed identity rendering from @mentions.
.TP
.B singine-find
Filesystem path discovery via the
.I filesAboutTopic
activity.
.TP
.B singine-mv
Move filesystem paths from stdin into a destination directory.
.TP
.B singine-transfer
File transfer and queue/stack helpers.
.TP
.B singine-smtp
SMTP test and send helpers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Top-level index (start here).
singine man

# AI conversation data — listing, inspection, export, centralisation.
singine man singine-ai

# Semantic bridge and SPARQL queries over AI session data.
singine man singine-bridge

# Policy governance for Claude, Codex, and OpenAI.
singine man singine-policy

# Governance decision records (online and offline).
singine man singine-decide

# Runtime, context, and execution envelope.
singine man singine-runtime
singine man singine-context
singine man singine-server
singine man singine-logseq
singine man singine-snapshot

# Template generation for Maven and npm.
singine man singine-template
singine man singine-archetype
singine man singine-dotfiles
singine man singine-intranet

# Demo bundles and platform scaffold.
singine man singine-demo
singine man singine-platform
singine man singine-essay

# Activity taxonomy and DP(DP).
singine man singine-activity

# Apple Photos review workflow and test-case commands.
singine man singine-photo

# Get the raw filesystem path to a manpage.
singine man singine-auth --raw
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-photo (1),
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1),
.BR singine-policy (1)
