.TH SINGINE-MCP 1 "2026-03-25" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine mcp \- Singine Collibra MCP server for querying governed domain data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine mcp
.I COMMAND
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine mcp
exposes Collibra-ingested domain data, AI session records, and governance
decisions as tools and resources via the Model Context Protocol (MCP).
MCP clients \(em including Claude Desktop and Claude Code \(em can connect to
this server to query the Singine domain layer without direct SQL access.
.PP
The server is backed by a single SQLite database that is expected to contain
the Singine domain schema (seven tables) along with optional AI session and
AI access governance tables.  A seed command is provided for testing.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B seed
Populate a SQLite database with representative Collibra domain data.
Creates all schema tables and inserts business terms, capabilities,
processes, data categories, domain events, governed transactions,
reference data, AI sessions, and governance decisions.
.nf
singine mcp seed [--db PATH]
.fi
.TP
.B serve
Start the MCP server.  The default transport is
.B stdio
(used by MCP clients that launch the server as a subprocess).
Use
.B --transport sse
to expose an HTTP/SSE endpoint instead.
.nf
singine mcp serve [--db PATH] [--transport stdio|sse] [--port N]
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --db PATH
Path to the SQLite database.
Defaults to
.IR /tmp/singine-mcp-test.db .
For production use, point this at the shared Singine domain database.
.TP
.B --transport stdio|sse
MCP transport.
.B stdio
(default) is used by Claude Desktop and Claude Code, which launch the
server as a managed subprocess and communicate over stdin/stdout.
.B sse
starts an HTTP server (suitable for browser-based clients or debugging).
.TP
.B --port N
HTTP port for the SSE transport.  Default:
.BR 8765 .
.SH MCP TOOLS
The following tools are registered with the MCP server and available to
any connected MCP client.
.SS Domain \(em master data
.TP
.B list_assets(asset_type, limit)
List Collibra assets.
.I asset_type
is one of
.BR BusinessTerm ,
.BR BusinessCapability ,
.BR BusinessProcess ,
.BR DataCategory .
.TP
.B find_assets(query, asset_type, limit)
Case-insensitive substring search across name, definition, and description.
.TP
.B get_asset(asset_type, asset_id)
Retrieve a single asset by primary key UUID.
.SS Domain \(em events
.TP
.B list_domain_events(event_type, subject_id, limit)
List domain events ordered newest-first.
Filterable by event type (e.g.\&
.BR CATALOG_ASSET_REGISTERED )
or subject UUID.
.SS Domain \(em transactions
.TP
.B list_transactions(tx_type, status, limit)
List governed transactions (policy evaluations, mandate grants, decisions).
.SS Domain \(em reference data
.TP
.B list_reference_data(code_set, limit)
List reference data entries.
.I code_set
values include
.B scenario-codes
and
.BR iata-codes .
.SS AI sessions
.TP
.B list_ai_sessions(limit)
List recent AI sessions across all providers.
.TP
.B get_ai_session(session_id)
Return full session bundle: metadata, all interactions, and mandates.
.SS Governance
.TP
.B list_governance_approvals(ai_system, limit)
List AI access governance approvals.
.TP
.B list_governance_decisions(ai_system, decision, limit)
List governance decisions (APPROVED / REJECTED).
.TP
.B get_invocation_summary(ai_system)
Summarise AI invocation counters.
.SS Cross-cutting
.TP
.B execute_sql(sql, params)
Execute a SELECT-only SQL query.  All other statement types are rejected.
.TP
.B list_tables()
List all tables present in the database.
.TP
.B describe_table(table_name)
Return column information for a table (via PRAGMA table_info).
.SH MCP RESOURCES
.TP
.B singine://domain/schema
JSON summary of all tables and their columns.
.TP
.B singine://domain/capabilities
All business capabilities as JSON.
.TP
.B singine://domain/terms
All business terms as JSON.
.SH DATABASE SCHEMA
The expected schema mirrors the Java
.I SchemaBootstrap
class in the Humble IDP domain layer.  The key tables are:
.IP \(bu 2
.B business_term
\(em canonical glossary definitions (Collibra BusinessTerm assets)
.IP \(bu 2
.B business_capability
\(em organisational capabilities aligned to Collibra
.IP \(bu 2
.B business_process
\(em processes linked to capabilities
.IP \(bu 2
.B data_category
\(em hierarchical data classification (Personal, Financial, Operational, \&...)
.IP \(bu 2
.B domain_event
\(em append-only event log (CATALOG_ASSET_REGISTERED, AI_SESSION_STARTED, \&...)
.IP \(bu 2
.B governed_transaction
\(em policy evaluations, mandate grants, governance decisions
.IP \(bu 2
.B reference_data_entry
\(em code-sets: scenario-codes, iata-codes, \&...
.PP
Optional tables (gracefully absent if not present):
.IP \(bu 2
.B ai_sessions, ai_interactions, ai_mandates
\(em governed AI session records (see
.BR singine-ai (1))
.IP \(bu 2
.B approvals, decisions, invocation_counters
\(em AI access governance (see
.BR singine-policy (1))
.SH CONFIGURE AS CLAUDE CODE MCP SERVER
Add an entry to your Claude Code MCP configuration
.RI ( claude_desktop_config.json
or the Claude Code settings file):
.nf
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "singine-collibra": {
      "command": "singine",
      "args": ["mcp", "serve", "--db", "/path/to/domain.db"],
      "env": {
        "SINGINE_ROOT": "/private/tmp/singine-personal-os"
      }
    }
  }
}
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Seed the default test database and inspect it.
singine mcp seed
sqlite3 /tmp/singine-mcp-test.db ".tables"

# Seed a custom database.
singine mcp seed --db ~/.singine/domain.db

# Start the server in stdio mode (used by Claude Desktop / Claude Code).
singine mcp serve --db ~/.singine/domain.db

# Start the server in SSE mode for debugging.
singine mcp serve --db /tmp/singine-mcp-test.db --transport sse --port 8765

# Query via the CLI (smoke test without an MCP client).
python -c "
from singine.mcp.server import configure, list_assets
configure('/tmp/singine-mcp-test.db')
for a in list_assets('BusinessCapability'):
    print(a['name'])
"
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SINGINE_ROOT
Root directory of the Singine personal OS tree.  Used by the server to
locate policy files and registries when running alongside other singine
commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-domain (1),
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-policy (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1)
