.TH SINGINE-WEB 1 "2026-03-21" "singine 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-web \- web asset management, security, and deployment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine www
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B singine vww
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B singine wingine
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B singine wsec
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B singine web
surface is four command families that together cover the full lifecycle
of a web property — from source control through build, staging, deployment,
and security governance.
.PP
.TP
.B www
Deploy pipeline.
.BR "git pull" " \(ra"
.BR "wingine build" " \(ra"
Dropbox stage
.BR " \(ra"
.BR "rsync / scp" " to remote server."
.TP
.B vww
Read-only validation and audit: TLS certificate check, HTTP security
headers, asset inventory, full security report.
.TP
.B wingine
Build engine.  Invokes each site's native pipeline:
.I python-cortex
(XML \(ra HTML via xsltproc) for
.I markupware.com
and
.I maven-war
for
.IR lutino.io .
.TP
.B wsec
Web security.  Manages TLS certificates, ed25519 SSH deploy keys (via the
singine IDP trust store), and short-lived JWT deploy tokens.
.SH REGISTERED SITES
.TP
.B markupware.com
XML/DocBook static site.  Built by
.I cortex/build.py
from
.IR ~/ws/git/markupware.com/ .
Output in
.IR html/ .
.TP
.B lutino.io
Subscription-management Java web application.  Built by
.I mvn package
from
.IR ~/ws/git/lutino.io/lutino/ .
Output in
.IR target/lutino_webapp/ .
.SH www SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B deploy
Full pipeline in one command.  Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-site \fISITE\fR
Required.  \fImarkupware.com\fR or \fIlutino.io\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-method \fIMETHOD\fR
\fIrsync\fR (default) | \fIscp\fR | \fIdropbox\fR | \fIall\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-git
Skip the git pull step.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-build
Skip the wingine build step.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-dropbox
Skip the Dropbox staging step.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print commands; make no changes.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine-readable output.
.RE
.TP
.B sync
Sync via a single specified method without the full pipeline.
Options: \fB\-\-site\fR, \fB\-\-method\fR {git|rsync|scp|dropbox|all}, \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR.
.TP
.B status
Show deployment state: recent git log, remote SSH reachability, paths.
.TP
.B diff
Show \fIgit status \-\-short\fR for the local source repo.
.TP
.B pull
\fIgit pull\fR only.  No build or sync.
.SH vww SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B cert
Check TLS certificate: expiry, SAN coverage, issuer.
Reports ERR_TLS_CERT_ALTNAME_INVALID if any required SAN is missing.
.TP
.B scan
HTTP security scan: HTTPS redirect, security response headers
(HSTS, CSP, X-Content-Type-Options, X-Frame-Options, Referrer-Policy,
Permissions-Policy), server header exposure.
.TP
.B assets
List all tracked web assets in the local build output, grouped by type.
.TP
.B check
Quick health check.  \fB\-\-all\fR runs cert + scan + asset inventory.
.TP
.B audit
Full audit report: cert + scan + assets + SSH key status + recent git log.
.SH wingine SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B build
Build the site from source.
\fB\-\-clean\fR forces a full rebuild (cortex pipeline only).
.TP
.B serve
Serve the built output locally on
.I http://localhost:<port>/
using Python's built-in HTTP server.
Default ports: 8080 (markupware.com), 8081 (lutino.io).
.TP
.B status
Show build output directory existence and file count.
.SH wsec SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B cert
Inspect or renew the TLS certificate.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-fix\-san
Renew with the full set of required SANs.
.TP
.B \-\-renew
Renew unconditionally.
.TP
.B \-\-method \fIMETHOD\fR
\fIcertbot\fR (default) | \fIacme.sh\fR | \fImanual\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Certbot or acme.sh dry-run / test mode.
.RE
.TP
.B keys
Manage ed25519 SSH deploy keys.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-add
Generate a new deploy key and register it in the singine IDP trust store.
.TP
.B \-\-rotate
Archive current key and generate a replacement.
.PP
Keys are stored under
.IR ~/.singine/keys/ .
Each key is registered as
\fIurn:singine:deploy:<site>\fR
in
.IR singine.jks .
.RE
.TP
.B token
Mint a short-lived JWT deploy token (HS256, default TTL 3600 s) via the
singine IDP.
Claims include
.IR sub ,
.IR site ,
.IR role=deploy ,
.IR iss=urn:singine:idp .
.TP
.B status
Full security status: cert check + key inventory combined.
.SH IDP TRUST CHAIN
.nf
singine-root-ca  (singine.jks / singine.sec.trust)
  \(lq\(en singine-deploy-<site>  (ed25519, urn:singine:deploy:<site>)
        \(lq\(en JWT deploy token  (HS256, iss: urn:singine:idp)
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SINGINE_DEPLOY_SECRET
HS256 secret for JWT deploy tokens.
Default (dev only): \fIsingine\-deploy\-<site>\-changeme\fR.
.TP
.B SINGINE_DOMAIN_DB
Path to the singine domain event log SQLite database.
Default: \fI/tmp/humble\-idp.db\fR.
.TP
.B SINGINE_KS_PASS
Password for the singine JKS trust store.
Default: \fIsingine\-changeit\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS First-time site setup
.nf
singine wsec keys   --site markupware.com --add
singine www status  --site markupware.com
singine www deploy  --site markupware.com --dry-run
singine www deploy  --site markupware.com
.fi
.SS Fix TLS certificate (markupware.com)
.nf
singine vww cert    --site markupware.com
singine wsec cert   --site markupware.com --fix-san --dry-run
singine wsec cert   --site markupware.com --fix-san --method certbot
singine vww cert    --site markupware.com
.fi
.SS Regular deploy
.nf
singine www diff    --site lutino.io
singine www deploy  --site lutino.io
.fi
.SS Audit before deploy
.nf
singine vww audit   --site markupware.com
singine wingine status --site markupware.com
singine wsec status --site markupware.com
.fi
.SS Incremental sync only
.nf
singine www sync --site markupware.com --method dropbox
singine www sync --site markupware.com --method rsync
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I singine/www.py
Site registry, deploy pipeline, Dropbox staging, rsync/scp dispatch.
.TP
.I singine/vww.py
TLS scan, HTTP header scan, asset inventory, audit report.
.TP
.I singine/wingine.py
Build backend registry (python-cortex, maven-war), local serve.
.TP
.I singine/wsec.py
TLS cert check/renew, ed25519 key management, JWT token mint.
.TP
.I singine/command.py
CLI registration (\fBbuild_parser()\fR).
.TP
.I ~/.singine/keys/
SSH deploy key storage.
.TP
.I ~/.singine/singine.jks
Singine JKS trust store (deploy keys registered here).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-transfer (1),
.BR singine-auth (1),
.BR singine-idp (1),
.BR singine-domain (1),
.BR singine-edge (1)
.PP
Full documentation:
.I docs/singine-web.md
