.TH SINGINE-MV 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-mv \- move filesystem paths from stdin into a destination directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine mv
.B fileListTo
\fIDEST_DIR\fR
[\fB-0\fR|\fB--null\fR]
[\fB--mkdir\fR]
[\fB--dry-run\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mv
command is a first-class Singine activity entry point for filesystem moves.
It reads source paths from standard input and applies the
.B fileListTo
activity to move each listed path into the destination directory.
.PP
This command is designed for shell pipelines. Use newline-delimited input for
simple cases, or NUL-delimited input with
.B --null
for filenames containing spaces, tabs, or newlines.
.PP
When the Singine JVM filesystem activity classes are compiled under
.I core/classes
the CLI may route execution to the JVM-backed
.B fileListTo
activity implementation.
.SH ACTIVITY
.TP
.B fileListTo
Move each filesystem path received on stdin into the destination directory
given as
.IR DEST_DIR .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -0 , --null
Read NUL-delimited paths from stdin instead of newline-delimited paths.
.TP
.B --mkdir
Create the destination directory if it does not already exist.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Print the planned moves without modifying the filesystem.
.TP
.B --json
Emit a JSON result with moved, skipped, and failed paths.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
ls -a | grep -i collibra | singine mv fileListTo ~/ws/collibra/raw/
find . -maxdepth 1 -iname '*collibra*' -print0 | singine mv fileListTo ~/ws/collibra/raw/ --null
find . -maxdepth 1 -iname '*.dmg' -print0 | singine mv fileListTo ~/Downloads/Applications --null --mkdir
find . -maxdepth 1 -iname '*.zip' -print0 | singine mv fileListTo ~/Downloads/Archives --null --dry-run
singine find filesAboutTopic xflow --root-dir ~/Downloads --null | singine mv fileListTo ~/ws/xflow/ --null --mkdir
printf '%s\n' ~/Downloads/report.pdf | java -cp ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/core/classes singine.activity.fs.FilesystemActivityMain mv fileListTo ~/ws/archive --mkdir
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 when all requested moves succeed or are planned via
.BR --dry-run .
Returns 1 when one or more move operations fail.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-transfer (1),
.BR mv (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR xargs (1)
