.TH SINGINE-REALM 1 "2026-03-17" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-realm \- realm audits, cron specifications, and topic-interest Atom feeds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine realm check
[\fB--realm\fR \fIREALM\fR]...
[\fB--domain\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR]...
[\fB--service\fR \fIdns|tls|trust|vault\fR]...
[\fB--output-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--request\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--response\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--read-request\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.PP
.B singine realm cron-write
\fB--cron\fR \fIEXPR\fR
[\fB--realm\fR \fIREALM\fR]...
[\fB--domain\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR]...
[\fB--service\fR \fIdns|tls|trust|vault\fR]...
[\fB--output-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--cron-file\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.PP
.B singine realm broadcast-interest
[\fB--topic\fR \fITOPIC\fR]
[\fB--target\fR \fITARGET\fR]...
[\fB--realm\fR \fIREALM\fR]...
[\fB--domain\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR]...
[\fB--output-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.PP
.B singine realm read-atom
\fIATOM.xml\fR [\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B realm
command family adds a simple operator surface around realm-wide DNS, TLS,
trust-store, and vault checks.
Every request and result is written as Atom XML so periodic jobs can be driven
from cron without losing the original request envelope.
.PP
Realm names may be explicit infrastructure realms such as
\fIlocal.realm\fR,
\fIext.realm\fR,
\fIneighbour.realm\fR,
\fIdmz.realm\fR,
\fImode1.realm\fR,
and
\fImode2.realm\fR,
or any domain/subdomain used as a realm identifier.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B check
Generate a request Atom feed, run local DNS/TLS/trust/vault checks, and write
a response Atom feed.
The default domains are:
\fIlutino.io\fR,
\fIwww.markupware.com\fR,
\fIapp.lutino.io\fR,
and
\fIcollibra.lutino.io\fR.
.TP
.B cron-write
Generate a cron specification for
.B singine realm check
and write:
.IP \(bu 2
a request Atom feed
.IP \(bu 2
a response Atom feed describing the cron job
.IP \(bu 2
a plain cron file with the generated command line
.TP
.B broadcast-interest
Write an Atom feed that maps a topic to named targets such as
\fIsingine\fR,
\fIsilkpage\fR,
\fIcollibra\fR,
\fIlutino.io\fR,
\fIwww.markupware.com\fR,
\fIapp.lutino.io\fR,
and
\fIcollibra.lutino.io\fR.
.TP
.B read-atom
Summarise an Atom feed previously generated by one of the realm commands.
.SH SERVICES
.TP
.B dns
Uses local
.BR nslookup (1)
and
.BR whois (1)
when available.
.TP
.B tls
Uses local
.BR openssl (1)
with
.B s_client
to inspect port 443.
.TP
.B trust
Reports the expected Singine and Lutino trust-store paths, including the
Singine keystore and local CA certificate locations.
.TP
.B vault
Reports HashiCorp Vault or Singine vault environment hints, including
\fBVAULT_ADDR\fR,
\fBSINGINE_VAULT_ADDR\fR,
and
\fB~/.vault-token\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
singine realm check --json
singine realm check --realm local.realm --domain lutino.io --service dns --service tls --json
singine realm cron-write --cron "*/30 * * * *" --realm dmz.realm --domain collibra.lutino.io --service tls --json
singine realm broadcast-interest --topic "realm trust and vault" --json
singine realm read-atom /tmp/singine-realm/realm-check.response.atom --json
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /tmp/singine-realm/
Default output directory for generated request, response, and cron artifacts.
.TP
.I ~/.singine/singine.jks
Singine-owned keystore.
.TP
.I ~/.singine/trust.edn
Human-readable trust inventory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/lutino/ssl/cacert.pem
Local CA bundle candidate used by Lutino/SilkPage workflows.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-server (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1),
.BR singine-edge (1)
