.TH SINGINE-ACTIVITY 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine\-activity \- inspect, instantiate, and evaluate activity taxonomy entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine activity
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B singine activity list
[\fB--domain\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR] [\fB--json\fR|\fB--edn\fR|\fB--xml\fR]
.PP
.B singine activity inspect
\fIACTIVITY_ID\fR [\fB--json\fR|\fB--edn\fR|\fB--xml\fR]
.PP
.B singine activity run
\fIACTIVITY_ID\fR [\fB--input\fR \fIEDN_MAP\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
.PP
.B singine activity score
\fIOUTCOME_ID\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B activity
command works with the singine activity taxonomy: a strict classification
of actions, policies, and outcomes centred on the ultimate metric.
.PP
Every activity in the taxonomy follows the three-part structure:
.TP
.B Activity
Template that defines what is to be done and under which Policy.
.TP
.B Policy
Execution algorithm: applies rules to a context map and governs the action.
Governance decisions are recorded with
.BR singine-decide (1).
.TP
.B Outcome
Measured result carrying usage value, business value, and platform cost.
The derived score is:
.IP
.nf
usage_cost_benefit_score = usage_value + business_value \- platform_cost
.fi
.PP
AI conversations governed by
.BR singine-ai (1)
are a first-class activity type in this taxonomy.
Each conversation session maps to an Activity (the conversation topic), a
Policy (the permission and mandate record), and an Outcome (the artefacts
delivered and the session outcome score).
Use
.B "singine ai session show ID"
to retrieve the full activity record for a conversation, and
.B "singine ai session export ID"
to export it in JSON or EDN form.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
Print all activities in the taxonomy.
Filter by domain with
.BR --domain .
.TP
.B inspect
Print the full definition of a single activity by ID.
.TP
.B run
Instantiate and execute an activity.
Accepts an EDN context map via
.B --input
to override defaults.
.TP
.B score
Print the usage-cost-benefit score for a completed outcome.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --domain \fIDOMAIN\fR
Filter activities to a single domain (e.g.
.IR emacs-orgmode-logseq ,
.IR elia-electricity ,
.IR data-production ,
.IR ai-conversation ).
.TP
.B --json
Emit raw JSON output.
.TP
.B --edn
Emit Clojure EDN output (default for JVM consumers).
.TP
.B --xml
Emit XML output compatible with the Elia electricity domain model.
.TP
.B --input \fIEDN_MAP\fR
EDN context map overrides for the
.B run
command, e.g.
.IR "{:env \"dev\"}" .
.SH TAXONOMY FILE
The canonical EDN taxonomy is at:
.IP
.I singine/core/resources/singine/activity/taxonomy.edn
.PP
It is aligned with the Java action/activity interfaces under:
.IP
.I singine/core/java/singine/activity/
.PP
and is the single source of truth from which XML, SPARQL, GraphQL,
LaTeX, SVG, Logseq query artefacts, and SilkPage-facing publication inputs
are generated via:
.IP
.nf
singine xml matrix --db /tmp/sqlite.db --output-dir /tmp/singine-xml-matrix
.fi
.PP
The same publication chain is typically completed with Ant Javadoc generation
and the xmldoclet/SilkPage doc pipeline described in
.BR singine-server (1)
and the repo README files.
.SH AI CONVERSATION ACTIVITIES
AI conversations are recorded as activity instances.
Each governed Claude Code session under
.BR singine-ai (1)
produces:
.IP \(bu 2
.B manifest.edn
\(em the activity instance record (topic, artefacts, outcome type, outcome score)
.IP \(bu 2
.B permissions.edn
\(em the policy record (every permission grant, denial, and conditional)
.IP \(bu 2
.B commands.edn
\(em the ordered execution log (tool calls and their rationale)
.PP
These files live under:
.nf
singine/ai/sessions/{session-id}/
.fi
.PP
To score a completed conversation activity:
.nf
# Retrieve the outcome from manifest.edn
singine ai session show SESSION-ID --json | jq '.outcome'

# Export and compute the score manually
singine ai session export SESSION-ID | jq '.manifest.outcome'
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
singine activity list
singine activity list --domain ai-conversation --json
singine activity list --domain emacs-orgmode-logseq --edn
singine activity inspect activity-emacs-logseq-01 --xml
singine activity run activity-dpdp-01 --input '{:env "dev"}'
singine activity score <outcome-uuid>
.fi
.SH DP(DP) — DATA PRODUCTION OF DATA PRODUCTION
The
.I data-production
domain contains the DP(DP) meta-activities: activities that govern the
activity taxonomy itself.  The logo is published at
.IR sina.khakbaz.com/img/dpdp-logo.svg .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-decide (1),
.BR singine-model (1),
.BR singine-xml (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1),
.BR singine-server (1)
