.TH SINGINE-WIKIPEDIA 1 "2026-03-27" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-wikipedia \- repository-backed Wikipedia contribution workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine wikipedia contrib
\fITOPIC\fR [\fB--repo-root\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--action\fR \fIACTION\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B wikipedia
command family wraps repository-backed publication and maintenance workflows for
Wikipedia-supporting knowledge-graph projects.
The current topic surface is
.BR collibra .
It is intended for neutral, source-driven maintenance of a standalone repository
that produces Markdown, Org, Logseq, XML, JSON-LD, Atom, RSS, and maintainer
notification artifacts.
.SH TOPICS
.TP
.B collibra
Maintain the Collibra Wikipedia-support repository rooted at
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/datatech-wiki-kg
unless
.B --repo-root
overrides it.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B status
Report repository metadata, campaign metadata, and the pending notification
manifest without mutating files.
.TP
.B refresh
Run
.B python3 scripts/refresh_repo.py
inside the standalone repository to regenerate derived artifacts such as Org,
Logseq, JSON-LD, Atom, RSS, and the pending notification manifest.
.TP
.B ingest-live
Run
.B python3 scripts/ingest_wikipedia_changes.py
to pull live MediaWiki revisions, talk-page activity, compare output, and
repo-local diffs into tracked ingest artifacts.
.TP
.B kernel-sync
Run
.B python3 scripts/sync_kernel_views.py
to project selected repository content into the Singine kernel Logseq graph.
.TP
.B visualize
Run
.B python3 scripts/render_process_visual.py
to derive the Mermaid workflow diagram from the canonical XML protocol payload.
.TP
.B test-case
Run the end-to-end command-line verification:
.B python3 scripts/test_case.py
.TP
.B install-hooks
Install the repository-local post-commit hook through
.BR python3\ scripts/install_hooks.py .
.TP
.B preview-mail
Render individualized opt-in updates without sending mail.
.TP
.B send-mail
Send individualized updates to opted-in recipients only.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --repo-root
Path to the standalone Wikipedia-support repository.
.TP
.B --action
Workflow action to run. Supported values:
.BR status ,
.BR refresh ,
.BR ingest-live ,
.BR kernel-sync ,
.BR visualize ,
.BR test-case ,
.BR install-hooks ,
.BR preview-mail ,
and
.BR send-mail .
.TP
.B --json
Emit a JSON payload describing the workflow result.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
singine wikipedia contrib collibra
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --json
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action refresh
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action ingest-live
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action kernel-sync
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action visualize
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action test-case
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action install-hooks
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action preview-mail
singine wikipedia contrib collibra --action send-mail
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/datatech-wiki-kg/config/project.json
Dependency and publication configuration for the standalone repository.
.TP
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/datatech-wiki-kg/protocol/wikipedia-contrib-process.xml
Canonical process payload used to derive the visual workflow.
.TP
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/datatech-wiki-kg/visuals/wikipedia-contrib-process.mmd
Derived Mermaid diagram for the contributor-facing process.
.TP
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/datatech-wiki-kg/data/wikipedia-ingest/
Tracked ingest snapshots for the live article, talk page, and template surfaces.
.TP
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/schema/singine-wikipedia-api.json
OpenAPI description of the local HTTP interaction model for this workflow.
.TP
.I /Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/runtime/sinlisp/wikipedia_contrib.sinlisp
SinLisp-ready command model for testing and interaction.
.SH NOTES
The default repository path is
\fI/Users/skh/ws/git/github/sindoc/datatech-wiki-kg\fR.
The wrapper prepares or refreshes artifacts, but does not automatically send
mail unless the explicit
.B --action send-mail
option is used.
.PP
The command documentation is mirrored in Markdown, OpenAPI, Javadoc, and
SinLisp under the
.B singine
repository so the workflow can be consumed by shell users, publication tooling,
JVM documentation pipelines, and structured testing surfaces.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-smtp (1),
.BR singine-logseq (1),
.BR singine-man (1)
