.TH SINGINE-IDP 1 "2026-03-13" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-idp \- identity provider commands for session, token, key, and user operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine idp
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B idp
command wraps the humble IdP server used by Singine. It manages login state,
token inspection, API keys, user registry access, and related operational tasks.
.SH COMMON ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B IDP_URL
Override the default IdP base URL, which is
.IR https://id.singine.local .
.SH TYPICAL SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Check IdP health and show current local session status.
.TP
.B login
Open a governed IdP-backed session.
.TP
.B logout
Delete the local session and notify the IdP when possible.
.TP
.B token ...
Issue or verify tokens.
.TP
.B key ...
Issue, list, or revoke API keys.
.TP
.B user ...
Inspect or manage users.
.TP
.B git ...
Snapshot or restore IdP state through the git-backed helper surface.
.TP
.B saml metadata
Fetch or print the IdP SAML metadata document.
.TP
.B saml sp-list
List configured SAML service providers known to the IdP.
.TP
.B saml login-url
Print the browser login URL for a configured SAML service provider.
.SH SAML SCENARIO
The current SAML support is a local/demo Web SSO profile intended to validate
metadata publication, browser login, and POSTed SAML responses against a demo
service provider. Assertions are not XML-signed yet.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.singine/session.json
Local session file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
singine idp status
singine idp login --state ~/.singine/auth/totp.json --code 123456
singine idp logout
singine idp saml metadata
singine idp saml sp-list
singine idp saml login-url --sp demo-sp
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-auth (1)
