.TH SINGINE\-JVM\-GRACE 1 "2026\-03\-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-jvm\-grace \- register, locate, build, and publish the JVM Grace
DocBook 5.2 site using the singine platform
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine find filesAboutTopic
.I jvm\-grace
.RB [ \-\-root\-dir
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.B singine decide
.I jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo
.B \-\-decision
.I approve
.RB [ \-\-reason
.IR TEXT ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.B singine xml matrix
.RB [ \-\-db
.IR PATH ]
.RB [ \-\-output\-dir
.IR PATH ]
.PP
.B singine runtime exec\-external
.B make
.RB [ \-C
.IR DIR ]
.RI [ TARGET ]
.PP
.B singine runtime exec\-external
.B make
.B \-C
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
.I single
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine\-jvm\-grace
documents the full singine command workflow for the
.B JVM Grace
DocBook 5.2 website project.  The project lives at
.IR ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/ .
.PP
All
.BR make (1)
targets in that directory are the canonical way to run the Saxon-based
XSLT transformation.
.B singine
commands wrap, locate, register, and inspect those operations within the
governed platform context.
.
.SH WHERE TO RUN
.PP
The
.BR make (1)
commands must be run from inside the site directory or with the
.B \-C
flag pointing at it:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
cd ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
make
.EE
.RE
.PP
or, from any working directory:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
.EE
.RE
.PP
The
.B singine runtime exec\-external
wrapper runs any external binary inside a structured JSON envelope that
captures context, output, and exit status \(em useful when you want the
invocation recorded in the singine runtime layer:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
singine runtime exec\-external make \-C \[ti]/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
.EE
.RE
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.SS 1. Locate the project
Use
.B singine find filesAboutTopic
to verify the project is where you expect it before running any build.
This replaces a bare
.BR find (1)
or
.BR ls (1)
call with a governed, JSON-capable discovery command.
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic jvm\-grace \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-json
Find all files and directories related to
.I jvm\-grace
under the arash workspace.  Returns a JSON envelope with
.IR count ,
.IR matches ,
and the resolved
.IR root_dir .
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic jvm\-grace \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type dir
Restrict results to directories only \(em useful to confirm
.I jvm\-grace\-site/
exists before running make.
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic silkpage \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git \-\-type dir \-\-max\-depth 4
Locate the SilkPage toolchain directory that contains the Saxon jars,
DocBook XSL snapshot, and XML catalog used by the Makefile.
.
.SS 2. Register the work
Use
.B singine decide
to attach a governance record to the conversation or document before
or after building.  The server is reached at
.I http://localhost:8080
by default; when the server is offline the command exits non-zero and
the record should be written locally (see
.BR OFFLINE " below).
.TP
.B singine decide jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo \-\-decision approve \-\-reason "JVM Grace DocBook site built with Saxon 6.5.3 open\-source"
Register an approval decision for the
.I jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo
asset.  The server returns a URN of the form:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
urn:singine:decision:jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo:<ISO\-timestamp>
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B singine decide jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo \-\-decision approve \-\-json
Same as above but emit the full decision envelope as JSON so it can
be piped or stored:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
singine decide jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo \-\-decision approve \-\-json \[rs]
  > ~/.singine/decisions/jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo.json
.EE
.RE
.
.SS 3. Build the chunked site (default \(em Saxon 6.5.3 open-source)
The default
.B make
target runs Saxon 6.5.3 (MPL 1.0) with the Apache XML Commons Resolver
for catalog-backed DocBook XSL chunking.  Saxon 6.5.3 is the XSLT 1.0
processor that DocBook XSL was written for and is the only open-source
Saxon that supports the
.I http://icl.com/saxon
extension elements required for chunked output.
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
Produce 26 chunked HTML files under
.I html/
using Saxon 6.5.3.
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
Same build wrapped in a singine runtime envelope: terminal context,
sourced environment, and the make output are captured together.
.
.SS 4. Build the single-page site (Saxon\-HE 9.2.0.2J open-source)
.B make single
uses Saxon\-HE 9.2.0.2J (MPL 2.0) for single-page output.  Saxon 9 HE
cannot drive the DocBook XSL 1.x chunker (XTDE1480 \(em
.I xsl:result\-document
inside a temporary tree), so it is used only for the non-chunked target.
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site single
Produce
.I html/jvm\-grace\-single.html
using Saxon\-HE 9.2.0.2J.
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site single
Wrapped version.
.
.SS 5. Validate the source
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site validate
Run
.BR xmllint (1)
well-formedness check on
.IR jvm\-grace.xml .
Equivalent to:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
xmllint \-\-noout ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/jvm\-grace.xml
.EE
.RE
.
.SS 6. Generate XML artifacts via singine
.B singine xml matrix
generates
.IR request.xml ,
.IR response.xml ,
and
.I heatmap.xml
from the local bridge database.  These artifacts are the singine-native
complement to the DocBook XML document.
.TP
.B singine xml matrix \-\-db /tmp/sqlite.db \-\-output\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/singine\-xml
Generate singine XML artifacts into the site directory alongside the
DocBook source.
.TP
.B singine runtime exec bridge sources \-\-db /tmp/sqlite.db
Inspect the current bridge sources before generating XML, to confirm
the bridge is populated.
.
.SS 7. Open the result
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site open
Open
.I html/index.html
in the system default browser.
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic jvm\-grace \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type file \-\-json
List every generated file to confirm the build output is complete.
.
.SH OFFLINE OPERATION
When the singine server
.RI ( http://localhost:8080 )
is not running,
.B singine decide
exits with an error.  Save the decision manually:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
python3 \-c "
import json, datetime, os
ts = datetime.datetime.now(datetime.timezone.utc).strftime('%Y\-%m\-%dT%H:%M:%SZ')
uid = 'jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo'
rec = {
  'ok': True,
  'urn': f'urn:singine:decision:{uid}:{ts}',
  'id': uid, 'decision': 'approve',
  'ts': ts, 'source': 'local\-fallback'
}
os.makedirs(os.path.expanduser('~/.singine/decisions'), exist_ok=True)
open(os.path.expanduser(f'~/.singine/decisions/{uid}.json'), 'w').write(
  json.dumps(rec, indent=2))
print(rec['urn'])
"
.EE
.RE
.PP
The record is then stored at
.IR ~/.singine/decisions/jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo.json .
Re-run
.B singine decide
once the server is back to obtain a server-issued URN.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SINGINE_SESSION_TOKEN
If set, included in
.B runtime exec\-external
payloads for audit tracing.
.TP
.B SINGINE_CORTEX_DB
Override the default bridge database path
.RI ( /tmp/sqlite.db ).
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/
Project root.  Run all
.BR make (1)
targets from here (or use
.BR \-C ).
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/Makefile
Defines the
.BR transform ,
.BR single ,
.BR validate ,
.BR clean ,
and
.B open
targets.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/jvm\-grace.xml
DocBook 5.2 source document.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/jvm\-grace\-custom.xsl
SilkPage customization layer — imports DocBook XSL chunk.xsl via catalog.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/html/
Generated website (26 UTF-8 HTML files + CSS).
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/silkpage/core/share/lib/java/saxon\-6_5_3.jar
Saxon 6.5.3 open-source XSLT 1.0 processor (MPL 1.0).
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/silkpage/core/share/lib/java/saxon9he.jar
Saxon\-HE 9.2.0.2J open-source XSLT 2.0 processor (MPL 2.0).
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/silkpage/core/share/lib/java/resolver\-1_0.jar
Apache XML Commons Resolver \(em provides catalog-backed URI resolution
for both Saxon processors.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/silkpage/core/cfg/catalog\-resolved.xml
OASIS XML catalog that rewrites DocBook XSL public URIs to the local
SilkPage toolchain paths.
.TP
.I ~/.singine/decisions/jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo.json
Local governance decision record (offline fallback).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Full workflow from a clean state
.PP
.EX
# 0. Confirm the project location
singine find filesAboutTopic jvm\-grace \[rs]
  \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type dir

# 1. Register the work (server must be running; see OFFLINE if not)
singine decide jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo \[rs]
  \-\-decision approve \[rs]
  \-\-reason "JVM Grace DocBook 5.2 site \(em Saxon 6.5.3 build" \[rs]
  \-\-json > ~/.singine/decisions/jvm\-grace\-groovy\-demo.json

# 2. Validate the DocBook source
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site validate

# 3. Build chunked site (Saxon 6.5.3 \(em default, open\-source)
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site

# 4. Build single\-page variant (Saxon\-HE 9 \(em open\-source)
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site single

# 5. Open in browser
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site open

# 6. Inspect output files via singine
singine find filesAboutTopic jvm\-grace \[rs]
  \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-json
.EE
.SS Wrapped in the singine runtime envelope
.PP
.EX
singine runtime exec\-external \[rs]
  make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site
.EE
.SS XML artifacts alongside the DocBook source
.PP
.EX
singine bridge build \-\-db /tmp/sqlite.db
singine bridge sources \-\-db /tmp/sqlite.db
singine xml matrix \[rs]
  \-\-db /tmp/sqlite.db \[rs]
  \-\-output\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash/jvm\-grace\-site/singine\-xml
.EE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine\-find (1),
.BR singine\-decide (1),
.BR singine\-xml (1),
.BR singine\-runtime (1),
.BR singine\-install (1),
.BR singine\-bridge (1),
.BR make (1),
.BR xmllint (1)
.
.SH SAXON EDITION NOTES
.TP
.B Saxon 6.5.3
Open\-source, Mozilla Public Licence 1.0.  XSLT 1.0 processor.  Ships inside
the SilkPage toolchain at
.IR silkpage/core/share/lib/java/saxon\-6_5_3.jar .
The DocBook XSL chunker detects it via
.I element\-available('saxon:output')
(namespace
.IR http://icl.com/saxon )
and uses it to write multiple output files.
.TP
.B Saxon\-HE 9.2.0.2J
Open\-source, Mozilla Public Licence 2.0.  XSLT 2.0 / XPath 2.0 processor.
Ships inside the SilkPage toolchain at
.IR silkpage/core/share/lib/java/saxon9he.jar .
Cannot drive the DocBook XSL 1.x chunker (XTDE1480 \(em
.I xsl:result\-document
is not permitted inside a temporary\-tree context).  Used only for
the non\-chunked
.B make single
target.
.
.SH DOCBOOK TOOLCHAIN NOTES
The XML catalog at
.I silkpage/core/cfg/catalog\-resolved.xml
rewrites two URI patterns:
.TP
.I http://docbook.sourceforge.net/release/xsl/current/
Rewritten to the local DocBook XSL snapshot at
.IR silkpage/tools/docbook\-xsl/ .
.TP
.I http://silkpage.markupware.com/release/core/current/src/xsl/
Rewritten to the local SilkPage XSL directory at
.IR silkpage/core/src/xsl/ .
.PP
Both Saxon processors load the catalog via the Apache XML Commons Resolver
class
.I org.apache.xml.resolver.tools.CatalogResolver
configured with the system property
.BR \-Dxml.catalog.files=<PATH> .
.
.SH AUTHOR
skh <skh@sindoc.io>
Human: skh
singine 0.2.0                     2026-03-16              SINGINE-JVM-GRACE(1)
