.TH SINGINE-FIND 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-find \- find filesystem paths related to a topic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine find
.B filesAboutTopic
\fITOPIC\fR
[\fB--root-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR]
[\fB--max-depth\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB--type\fR \fIany|file|dir\fR]
[\fB-0\fR|\fB--null\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B find
command is a first-class Singine filesystem discovery entry point.
It applies the
.B filesAboutTopic
activity to search for file and directory names containing the given topic
fragment, case-insensitively.
.PP
This command is intended to replace repeated shell use of
.BR find (1) ,
.BR grep (1) ,
and related flags when the task is simply "show me files or modules about
this topic".
.PP
When the Singine JVM filesystem activity classes are compiled under
.I core/classes
the CLI may route execution to the JVM-backed activity implementation.
That path is also invokable directly with:
.IP
.nf
java -cp ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/core/classes \
  singine.activity.fs.FilesystemActivityMain \
  find filesAboutTopic singine --root-dir ~/ws/git
.fi
.SH ACTIVITY
.TP
.B filesAboutTopic
Search from the selected root directory for filesystem paths whose basename
contains the requested topic fragment.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --root-dir \fIDIR\fR
Directory to search from. Defaults to the current directory.
.TP
.B --max-depth \fIN\fR
Maximum directory depth to traverse below the root directory. Defaults to 3.
.TP
.B --type \fIany|file|dir\fR
Restrict matches to files, directories, or both. Defaults to
.IR any .
.TP
.B -0 , --null
Emit NUL-delimited paths for safe composition with commands such as
.BR singine-mv (1)
or
.BR xargs (1).
.TP
.B --json
Emit a JSON result with metadata and all matched paths.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
singine find filesAboutTopic singine
singine find filesAboutTopic silkpage --type dir
singine find filesAboutTopic collibra --max-depth 5
singine find filesAboutTopic javad --root-dir ~/ws/git --type dir
singine find filesAboutTopic singine --root-dir ~/ws/git/github/sindoc --max-depth 6 --type dir
singine find filesAboutTopic collibra --root-dir ~/Downloads --null | singine mv fileListTo ~/ws/collibra/raw/ --null --mkdir
singine find filesAboutTopic xflow --null | singine mv fileListTo ~/ws/xflow/ --null --mkdir
cd ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/core && ant compile && ant javadoc-html
cd ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/singine/core && ant javadoc-xml
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-mv (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR xargs (1)
