.TH SINGINE-BRIDGE 1 "2026-03-16" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-bridge \- SQLite and JDBC bridge operations for Singine, AI session, Silkpage, and Collibra data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine bridge
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B singine jdbc-url
[\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The bridge subcommands merge local Singine, AI session, Silkpage, Claude, and
Codex data into a SQLite physical schema suitable for SPARQL-shaped queries and
JDBC access through
\fBjdbc:sqlite:\fR URLs.
.PP
AI conversation data — sessions, interactions, permissions, mandates, and
artefacts — can be synced into the bridge from
.BR singine-ai (1)
using
.B "singine ai last session data --db PATH"
or by passing
.B --db
when opening an interactive session.
Once synced, the full conversation record is available to every bridge
subcommand.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B build
Create or rebuild the bridge database from all available local sources.
This step is required before running queries against newly synced AI session data.
.TP
.B sources
List data source roots and entity/fragment counts.
AI session tables (ai_sessions, ai_interactions, ai_mandates) appear here once
at least one session has been synced.
.TP
.B search \fITEXT\fR
Perform full-text fragment search over the merged dataset.
Searches across all sources including AI session content.
.TP
.B entity \fIIRI\fR
Inspect one entity and its outgoing statements.
AI sessions are addressable by IRI of the form
.IR urn:singine:ai:session:claude:SESSION-ID .
.TP
.B sparql \fIQUERY\fR
Translate a supported SPARQL subset into SQL and execute it against the bridge.
See
.B SPARQL EXAMPLES
below for AI session query patterns.
.TP
.B graphql \fIQUERY\fR
Execute a GraphQL-shaped request over the same bridge. Supported roots are
\fIsources\fR, \fIsearch\fR, \fIentity\fR, and \fIsparql\fR.
.SH SUPPORTED SPARQL SHAPES
.TP
.B SELECT ?s WHERE { ?s a <Type> . }
Type lookup.
.TP
.B SELECT ?s ?label WHERE { ?s a <Type> ; rdfs:label ?label . }
Type lookup with labels.
.TP
.B SELECT ?s WHERE { ?s <Predicate> "literal" . }
Literal property match.
.TP
.B SELECT ?o WHERE { <Subject> <Predicate> ?o . }
Outbound relation lookup.
.TP
.B SELECT ?s ?o WHERE { ?s <Predicate> ?o . }
Predicate scan.
.SH AI SESSION DATA
After syncing session data with
.B "singine ai last session data --db PATH"
or
.BR "singine ai claude --db PATH" ,
the bridge holds the following tables:
.TP
.B ai_sessions
One row per session. Columns: session_id, provider, model, session_urn,
provider_object_ref, started_at, ended_at, status, metadata_json.
.TP
.B ai_interactions
One row per user or assistant turn. Columns: interaction_id, session_id,
created_at, role, content, metadata_json.
.TP
.B ai_mandates
One row per recorded mandate. Columns: mandate_id, session_id, created_at,
action_name, resource, decision, note.
.PP
EDN-backed sessions (governed Claude Code sessions) additionally expose their
artefact list and permission counts through the entities and statements tables
once ingested via
.IR load_*_into_singine.py
style ingestion scripts.
.SH SPARQL EXAMPLES
.SS AI session queries
.nf
# List all conversation assets by label
singine bridge sparql --db /tmp/singine-ai.db \\
  'SELECT ?s ?label WHERE { ?s a <ConversationAsset> ; rdfs:label ?label . }'

# Find all sessions for a specific provider
singine bridge sparql --db /tmp/singine-ai.db \\
  'SELECT ?s WHERE { ?s <singine:provider> "claude" . }'

# List all artefacts produced across sessions
singine bridge sparql --db /tmp/singine-ai.db \\
  'SELECT ?s ?o WHERE { ?s <singine:artefactPath> ?o . }'

# Find interactions mentioning a keyword
singine bridge sparql --db /tmp/singine-ai.db \\
  'SELECT ?s WHERE { ?s <singine:content> "parquet" . }'

# List permissions granted in a session
singine bridge sparql --db /tmp/singine-ai.db \\
  'SELECT ?s ?o WHERE { ?s <singine:permissionResource> ?o . }'

# Resolve a session by URN
singine bridge entity urn:singine:ai:session:claude:2026-03-16-china-debt-timeline \\
  --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
.fi
.SS General bridge queries
.nf
singine bridge build --db /tmp/sqlite.db
singine bridge search --db /tmp/sqlite.db "china debt"
singine bridge sparql --db /tmp/sqlite.db \\
  'SELECT ?s ?label WHERE { ?s a markdown ; rdfs:label ?label . } LIMIT 10'
singine bridge graphql --db /tmp/sqlite.db \\
  '{ search(text:"kernel", limit:5) { iri label snippet } }'
singine jdbc-url --db /tmp/sqlite.db

# Centralise the latest AI conversation first, then inspect the shared store
singine ai last session data --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine bridge sources --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
singine bridge search --db /tmp/singine-ai.db "claude"
.fi
.SH JDBC ACCESS
The bridge database is a standard SQLite file accessible via any JDBC-compatible
tool using the URL printed by
.BR singine-jdbc-url (1):
.nf
singine jdbc-url --db /tmp/singine-ai.db
# Returns: jdbc:sqlite:/tmp/singine-ai.db
.fi
.PP
This URL can be used in DBeaver, IntelliJ DataGrip, Apache Spark
.IR jdbc.url
configuration, or the Collibra catalog JDBC connection dialog.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-ai (1),
.BR singine-jdbc-url (1),
.BR singine-xml (1),
.BR singine-policy (1)
