.TH SINGINE-ESSAY 1 "2026-03-19" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-essay \- generate reflective essay bundles and publication artefacts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine essay personal-os
[\fB--title\fR \fITEXT\fR]
[\fB--output-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--onepager\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--metamodel-root\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine essay personal-os
writes a multi-format bundle around the idea of software as a personal
operating system. The generated artefacts line up:
.IP \(bu 2
Logseq reflection surfaces
.IP \(bu 2
Collibra and metamodel references
.IP \(bu 2
SQLite-friendly local memory assumptions
.IP \(bu 2
XML request/response workflow boundaries
.IP \(bu 2
Ballerina service choreography
.IP \(bu 2
C and Rust bridge contracts
.IP \(bu 2
Pico, SinLisp, and ixml grammar surfaces
.IP \(bu 2
HTML, SVG, and LaTeX publication outputs
.PP
The bundle is driven by local references such as the `sindoc42` onepager PDF,
the `lutino.collibra` metamodel tree, Logseq material, notebook fragments, and
XML request/response examples under `~/ws/today`.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --title
Override the essay title.
.TP
.B --output-dir
Directory where the bundle is written.
Defaults to
.IR /tmp/singine-personal-os .
.TP
.B --onepager
Path to the onepager PDF used as a local anchor.
Defaults to
.IR /Users/skh/ws/today/cleanUp/sindoc42-onepager.pdf .
.TP
.B --metamodel-root
Path to the Collibra-style metamodel root.
Defaults to
.IR /Users/skh/ws/today/metamodel/reference/current/latest/lutino.collibra.singine.process.C213(1) .
.TP
.B --json
Print the generated manifest as JSON instead of printing the Markdown path.
.SH GENERATED FILES
.IP \(bu 2
.I essay.md
.IP \(bu 2
.I essay.html
.IP \(bu 2
.I visual.svg
.IP \(bu 2
.I essay.tex
.IP \(bu 2
.I workflow/request.xml
.IP \(bu 2
.I workflow/response.xml
.IP \(bu 2
.I rules/personal_os_rules.sinlisp
.IP \(bu 2
.I interfaces/adapter.bal
.IP \(bu 2
.I interfaces/bridge.h
.IP \(bu 2
.I interfaces/bridge.rs
.IP \(bu 2
.I interfaces/bridge.pico
.IP \(bu 2
.I interfaces/grammar.ixml
.IP \(bu 2
.I manifest.json
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Write the full bundle.
singine essay personal-os

# Write the bundle to a named location and print the manifest.
singine essay personal-os \\
  --output-dir /tmp/singine-personal-os \\
  --json
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-man (1),
.BR singine-model (1),
.BR singine-logseq (1),
.BR singine-xml (1)
