.TH SINGINE-DOMAIN 1 "2026-03-17" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-domain \- master data, event log, governed transactions, and reference data over SQLite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine domain
.I FAMILY
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine domain
is the domain-layer CLI surface for the Humble IDP Java module.
It reads and writes the same SQLite database as the Java
.I idp.db
package, making every store accessible from the command line for
inspection, seeding, and governance workflows without starting the JVM.
.PP
The domain layer is structured around four command families derived from
the Singine metamodel and Collibra bridge asset types:
.TP
.B schema
Bootstrap and inspect the SQLite schema.
Run
.B schema init
before any other command on a fresh database.
.TP
.B master
CRUD operations for Collibra-aligned master data records.
Types are drawn directly from the
.I collibra_bridge.asset_types
surface of
.BR "singine model catalog" :
.I BusinessTerm,
.I BusinessCapability,
.I BusinessProcess,
.I DataCategory.
.TP
.B event
Append-only domain event log.
Event types span identity lifecycle
.RI ( IDENTITY_LOGIN ,
.IR IDENTITY_TOKEN_ISSUED ,
\(el),
AI session lifecycle
.RI ( AI_SESSION_STARTED ,
.IR AI_SESSION_CLOSED ,
\(el),
governance events
.RI ( GOVERNANCE_DECISION_RECORDED ,
.IR GOVERNANCE_MANDATE_ISSUED ,
\(el),
and catalog state transitions
.RI ( CATALOG_ASSET_REGISTERED ,
\(el).
.TP
.B tx
Governed transaction lifecycle.
Transaction types cover policy evaluation
.RI ( POLICY_EVALUATION ,
.IR POLICY_APPROVAL ),
governance decisions
.RI ( GOVERNANCE_DECISION ),
mandate lifecycle
.RI ( MANDATE_GRANT ,
.IR MANDATE_REVOKE ),
and authentication flows
.RI ( AUTH_LOGIN ,
.IR AUTH_TOKEN_EXCHANGE ,
\(el).
Status transitions follow the lifecycle:
.IR PENDING \(->
.IR APPROVED / REJECTED \(->
.IR COMPLETED / FAILED .
.TP
.B refdata
Reference data code sets.
Sourced from the Singine
.I reference_data
model family:
.I scenario\-codes
(four-letter scenario codes),
.I iata\-codes
(airport/country mapping),
.I unicode\-mapping
(Collibra-aligned character reference data).
.SH DATABASE
All commands take a
.B --db
option pointing at the SQLite file.
The same file can be used by the Java
.I idp.db
layer and by this CLI simultaneously, as SQLite supports concurrent readers.
.PP
When
.B --db
is omitted, an in-memory database is used
.RI ( :memory: )
which is useful for dry-run inspection but does not persist.
.PP
To use a shared persistent store:
.nf
export SINGINE_DOMAIN_DB=/tmp/humble-idp.db
singine domain schema init --db $SINGINE_DOMAIN_DB
.fi
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS schema
.TP
.B init \fR[\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR]
Create all domain tables (idempotent \(em safe to run on an existing database).
.TP
.B tables \fR[\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
List tables present in the domain database.
.SS master
.TP
.B list \fB--type\fR \fITYPE\fR [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
List all records of the given Collibra asset type.
.TP
.B find \fB--type\fR \fITYPE\fR \fB--name\fR \fIFRAGMENT\fR [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Find records whose name contains
.IR FRAGMENT .
.TP
.B add \fB--type\fR \fITYPE\fR \fB--name\fR \fINAME\fR [\fB--id\fR \fIUUID\fR] [\fB--collibra-id\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Insert or update a master data record.
.SS event
.TP
.B log [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--subject-id\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--event-type\fR \fITYPE\fR] [\fB--limit\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Show recent events, optionally filtered by subject or type.
.TP
.B append \fB--event-type\fR \fITYPE\fR \fB--subject-id\fR \fIID\fR [\fB--actor-id\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--payload\fR \fIJSON\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Manually inject a domain event.
Useful for recording external lifecycle transitions
(e.g. offline governance decisions) into the event log.
.SS tx
.TP
.B list [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--status\fR \fISTATUS\fR] [\fB--type\fR \fITYPE\fR] [\fB--subject-id\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
List governed transactions with optional filters.
.TP
.B create \fB--type\fR \fITYPE\fR \fB--subject-id\fR \fIID\fR [\fB--ai-system\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB--policy-pack-ref\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--reason\fR \fITEXT\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Create a new governed transaction in PENDING state.
.TP
.B update \fB--tx-id\fR \fIID\fR \fB--status\fR \fISTATUS\fR [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Transition a transaction to a new lifecycle status.
Terminal statuses (APPROVED, REJECTED, COMPLETED, FAILED) stamp
.I completed_at
automatically.
.SS refdata
.TP
.B list [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--code-set\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
List code sets (no filter) or entries within a code set.
.TP
.B add \fB--code-set\fR \fINAME\fR \fB--code\fR \fICODE\fR \fB--label\fR \fITEXT\fR [\fB--description\fR \fITEXT\fR] [\fB--collibra-id\fR \fIID\fR] [\fB--db\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Add or update a reference data entry.
The
.RI ( code\-set ,\ code )
pair is the natural key; an existing entry is updated on conflict.
.SH COLLIBRA ALIGNMENT
Every domain record carries a
.I CollibraRef
composed of:
.IP \(bu 2
.B collibraId
\(em stable Collibra asset UUID (empty string for unregistered assets)
.IP \(bu 2
.B assetType
\(em one of the 17 Collibra asset types surfaced by
.B "singine model catalog"
.IP \(bu 2
.B name
\(em the Collibra asset name
.PP
Use
.B "singine collibra"
to push registered records to a live Collibra instance.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Initialise a shared domain database.
singine domain schema init --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Seed electricity balancing master data.
singine domain master add --type BusinessTerm \\
  --name "Electricity Balancing" \\
  --collibra-id "coll-elba-001" \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

singine domain master add --type BusinessCapability \\
  --name "Grid Operations" \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

singine domain master add --type BusinessProcess \\
  --name "Electricity Balancing Process" \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# List all business terms.
singine domain master list --type BusinessTerm --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Find capabilities matching "Grid".
singine domain master find --type BusinessCapability \\
  --name "Grid" --db /tmp/humble-idp.db --json

# Record a governance decision event.
singine domain event append \\
  --event-type GOVERNANCE_DECISION_RECORDED \\
  --subject-id electricity-balancing \\
  --actor-id system \\
  --payload '{"decision":"approved","reason":"Semantic Model 1 baseline"}' \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Show recent events for a subject.
singine domain event log \\
  --subject-id electricity-balancing \\
  --limit 10 \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Create a policy evaluation transaction (mirrors singine policy ai evaluate).
singine domain tx create \\
  --type POLICY_EVALUATION \\
  --subject-id electricity-balancing \\
  --ai-system claude \\
  --policy-pack-ref /path/to/policy-pack.json \\
  --reason "Semantic Model 1 aligned with cost-benefit objective" \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Approve the transaction.
singine domain tx update \\
  --tx-id <UUID> \\
  --status APPROVED \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# List all pending transactions.
singine domain tx list --status PENDING --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Seed scenario-codes reference data.
singine domain refdata add \\
  --code-set scenario-codes \\
  --code ELBA \\
  --label "Electricity Balancing" \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Browse IATA codes.
singine domain refdata list \\
  --code-set iata-codes \\
  --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# Show all code sets.
singine domain refdata list --db /tmp/humble-idp.db
.fi
.SH INTEGRATION WITH JAVA LAYER
The SQLite database written by
.B singine domain
is binary-compatible with the Java
.I idp.db
package (same schema, same column names and ISO-8601 timestamps).
A typical workflow:
.PP
.nf
# 1. Bootstrap schema from the CLI.
singine domain schema init --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# 2. Seed reference and master data.
singine domain refdata add --db /tmp/humble-idp.db ...
singine domain master add --db /tmp/humble-idp.db ...

# 3. Run the Java application against the same file.
java -jar humble-idp-java.jar --db /tmp/humble-idp.db

# 4. Inspect the event log produced by the Java layer.
singine domain event log --db /tmp/humble-idp.db --limit 20
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-model (1),
.BR singine-policy (1),
.BR singine-decide (1),
.BR singine-bridge (1),
.BR singine-collibra (1)
