.TH SINGINE-PG 1 "2026-03-25" "singine 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-pg \- provision PostgreSQL and import SQLite databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine pg create database fromSQLite
.I SQLITE_DB
[\fB--db-name\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB--container\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB--image\fR \fIIMAGE\fR]
[\fB--host-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB--user\fR \fIUSER\fR]
[\fB--password\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR]
[\fB--replace\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B singine pg list databases
[\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B singine pg list schemas
[\fB--db-name\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B singine pg list tables
[\fB--db-name\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB--schema\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine pg
provides pragmatic PostgreSQL workflows for Singine.
The primary workflow provisions a local PostgreSQL instance in Docker and
imports a SQLite database into it, so tools such as Collibra Edge can use a
network-reachable JDBC endpoint instead of a pod-local SQLite file path.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS create database fromSQLite
.TP
.B singine pg create database fromSQLite \fISQLITE_DB\fR
Create or reuse a local PostgreSQL Docker container, create a target database,
translate the SQLite schema into PostgreSQL DDL, and bulk-load the rows.
Default container and connection settings:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
container: \fBsingine-pg\fR
.IP \(bu 2
image: \fBpostgres:16-alpine\fR
.IP \(bu 2
host: \fB127.0.0.1\fR
.IP \(bu 2
port: \fB55432\fR
.IP \(bu 2
user: \fBsingine\fR
.IP \(bu 2
password: \fBsingine\fR
.RE
.PP
The target database name defaults to the sanitized stem of the SQLite file.
For example:
.RS
.IP 1. 4
Import \fI/tmp/singine/sqlite.db\fR:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg create database fromSQLite /tmp/singine/sqlite.db"
.IP 2. 4
Reuse a fixed database name:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg create database fromSQLite /tmp/singine/sqlite.db --db-name singine_bridge"
.IP 3. 4
Rebuild the target from scratch:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg create database fromSQLite /tmp/singine/sqlite.db --db-name singine_bridge --replace"
.RE
.PP
Successful runs print the JDBC URL and credentials to use from Collibra Edge,
for example:
.BR "jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:55432/singine_bridge" .
.PP
When the caller is inside Docker Desktop Kubernetes, prefer:
.BR "jdbc:postgresql://host.docker.internal:55432/singine_bridge" .
.SS list databases
.TP
.B singine pg list databases
List non-template databases available in the local PostgreSQL container.
.PP
Example:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg list databases"
.SS list schemas
.TP
.B singine pg list schemas
List non-system schemas in a PostgreSQL database.
.PP
Example:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg list schemas --db-name singine_bridge"
.SS list tables
.TP
.B singine pg list tables
List base tables in a PostgreSQL schema. The default schema is
.BR public .
.PP
Examples:
.RS
.IP 1. 4
List public tables:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg list tables --db-name singine_bridge"
.IP 2. 4
List tables in another schema:
.BR "python3 -m singine.command pg list tables --db-name singine_bridge --schema my_schema"
.RE
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
This workflow depends on Docker rather than a native \fBpsql\fR installation.
.IP \(bu 2
The generated PostgreSQL endpoint is network-reachable from the local machine.
.IP \(bu 2
To make it reachable from Kubernetes or Collibra Edge, ensure the chosen host
and port are reachable from the runtime that executes the JDBC capability.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-edge (1)
