.TH SINGINE\-EDGE\-AGENT 1 "2026\-03\-17" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-edge\-agent \- prepare, install, and run the Collibra edge server agent
using the singine platform
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Locate
.B singine find filesAboutTopic
.I edge\-agent
.RB [ \-\-root\-dir
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.SS Governance
.B singine decide
.I edge\-agent
.B \-\-decision
.I approve
.RB [ \-\-reason
.IR TEXT ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.SS Lifecycle (via runtime envelope)
.B singine runtime exec\-external
.B make
.B \-C
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent
.RI [ TARGET ]
.PP
Canonical targets:
.B prepare
|
.B install
|
.B run
|
.B run\-task\ TASK=\(dq...\(dq
|
.B validate
|
.B status
|
.B clean
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine\-edge\-agent
documents the full singine command workflow for the
.B Collibra Edge Server Agent
\(em a Claude API application
.RI ( claude\-opus\-4\-6 ,
adaptive thinking, streaming) that generates Kubernetes manifests,
OpenShift 3.11 resources, and Collibra DGC edge configuration artifacts
for
.B CentOS\|/\|RHEL\ 7.7,\ 7.8,\ and\ 7.9 .
.PP
The project lives at
.IR ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/ .
All lifecycle operations are expressed as
.BR make (1)
targets in that directory so they can be wrapped uniformly by
.BR singine\ runtime\ exec\-external (1) .
.PP
The six tools the agent can call are:
.TP
.B generate_kubernetes_manifest
Deployment, Service, ConfigMap, or PersistentVolumeClaim YAML
(Kubernetes \(<=\|1.21, SELinux
.I spc_t
context).
.TP
.B generate_openshift_resource
Route, DeploymentConfig, ImageStream, or SecurityContextConstraints
(OpenShift 3.11 API groups).
.TP
.B validate_rhel_compatibility
Checks package lists and config snippets for RHEL 7.7\(en7.9 constraints
(yum-only, no dnf; Docker CE; Kubernetes \(<=\|1.21; Java 11).
.TP
.B generate_collibra_edge_config
Java startup options, firewalld zone XML, systemd unit, and edge
properties file for a Collibra DGC edge node.
.TP
.B write_artifact / read_artifact
Persist and retrieve generated files in the output directory.
.
.SH WHERE TO RUN
.PP
The
.BR make (1)
targets must be run from inside the project directory or with the
.B \-C
flag pointing at it:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
cd ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent
make prepare
.EE
.RE
.PP
or from any working directory:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent prepare
.EE
.RE
.PP
The
.B singine runtime exec\-external
wrapper captures context, output, and exit status in a structured JSON
envelope \(em preferred when invocations should be recorded in the
singine runtime layer:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent prepare
.EE
.RE
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.SS 1. Locate the project
Use
.B singine find filesAboutTopic
to verify the project exists before running any lifecycle target.
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic edge\-agent \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-json
Find all files and directories related to
.I edge\-agent
under the arash workspace.  Returns a JSON envelope with
.IR count ,
.IR matches ,
and resolved
.IR root_dir .
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic edge\-agent \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type dir
Restrict results to directories only \(em confirms
.I edge\-agent/
exists and is not stale.
.
.SS 2. Register the work
Use
.B singine decide
to attach a governance record before or after installation.
.TP
.B singine decide edge\-agent \-\-decision approve \-\-reason \(dqEdge agent: K8s/OpenShift/RHEL7/Collibra\(dq
Register an approval decision for the
.I edge\-agent
asset.  Returns a URN of the form:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
urn:singine:decision:edge\-agent:<ISO\-timestamp>
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B singine decide edge\-agent \-\-decision approve \-\-json
Emit the full decision envelope as JSON:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
singine decide edge\-agent \-\-decision approve \-\-json \[rs]
  > ~/.singine/decisions/edge\-agent.json
.EE
.RE
.
.SS 3. Prepare (create virtualenv + install dependencies)
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent prepare
Create
.I .venv/
and install
.I requirements.txt
(anthropic SDK).
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent prepare
Same preparation wrapped in a singine runtime envelope.
.
.SS 4. Install (prepare + governance registration)
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent install
Runs
.B prepare
and then calls
.B singine decide
to register an approval record.  If the singine server is offline,
the decision is written to
.I ~/.singine/decisions/edge\-agent.json
automatically (see
.BR OFFLINE ).
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent install
Wrapped version.
.
.SS 5. Validate (tool smoke\-test, no API call)
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent validate
Import all tools, assert all six schemas load, and run lightweight
function calls to confirm
.I tools.py
and
.I edge_agent.py
are structurally healthy \(em no ANTHROPIC_API_KEY required.
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent validate
Wrapped version; useful in CI.
.
.SS 6. Status
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent status
Print venv path, Python version, anthropic package version, output
directory artifact count, and current governance decision URN.
.
.SS 7. Run (default task)
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run
Run the agent with the built\-in default task: generate a complete
RHEL 7.9 Collibra edge stack (Kubernetes Deployment + Service,
OpenShift Route, firewalld zone XML, systemd unit).
Artifacts are written to
.IR output/ .
.PP
Requires
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
to be set in the environment:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk\-ant\-...
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run
Wrapped version.
.
.SS 8. Run a custom task
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run\-task TASK=\(dqdescription\(dq
Run the agent with an arbitrary natural-language task:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run\-task \[rs]
  TASK="Generate a Kubernetes PVC and ConfigMap for collibra\-edge on RHEL 7.8"
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent \[rs]
.B run\-task TASK=\(dqdescription\(dq
Wrapped version:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
singine runtime exec\-external make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent \[rs]
  run\-task TASK="Generate firewalld rules and SCC for RHEL 7.7"
.EE
.RE
.
.SS 9. Clean
.TP
.B make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent clean
Remove
.IR .venv/ ,
.IR output/ ,
and
.IR __pycache__/ .
.
.SS 10. Inspect generated artifacts via singine
.TP
.B singine find filesAboutTopic edge\-agent \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type file \-\-json
List every file under
.I edge\-agent/
to confirm artifacts were written.
.
.SH OFFLINE OPERATION
When the singine server
.RI ( http://localhost:8080 )
is not running,
.B singine decide
exits with an error.
.B make install
handles this automatically via an inline fallback that writes the
decision record locally:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
~/.singine/decisions/edge\-agent.json
.EE
.RE
.PP
To record the decision manually at any time:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
python3 \-c "
import json, datetime, os
ts = datetime.datetime.now(datetime.timezone.utc).strftime('%Y\-%m\-%dT%H:%M:%SZ')
uid = 'edge\-agent'
rec = {
  'ok': True,
  'urn': f'urn:singine:decision:{uid}:{ts}',
  'id': uid, 'decision': 'approve',
  'ts': ts, 'source': 'local\-fallback'
}
os.makedirs(os.path.expanduser('~/.singine/decisions'), exist_ok=True)
open(os.path.expanduser(f'~/.singine/decisions/{uid}.json'), 'w').write(
  json.dumps(rec, indent=2))
print(rec['urn'])
"
.EE
.RE
.PP
Re\-run
.B singine decide
once the server is back to obtain a server\-issued URN.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Required by
.B make run
and
.BR "make run\-task" .
Must be set to a valid Anthropic API key before running the agent.
.TP
.B SINGINE_SESSION_TOKEN
If set, included in
.B runtime exec\-external
payloads for audit tracing.
.TP
.B SINGINE_CORTEX_DB
Override the default bridge database path
.RI ( /tmp/sqlite.db ).
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/
Project root.  Run all
.BR make (1)
targets from here (or use
.BR \-C ).
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/Makefile
Defines the
.BR prepare ,
.BR install ,
.BR run ,
.BR run\-task ,
.BR validate ,
.BR status ,
and
.B clean
targets.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/edge_agent.py
Main agent entry point.  Streaming agentic loop,
.BR argparse (3)
CLI, tool dispatch.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/tools.py
Six
.B @beta_tool
functions: generate_kubernetes_manifest, generate_openshift_resource,
validate_rhel_compatibility, generate_collibra_edge_config,
write_artifact, read_artifact.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/requirements.txt
Single dependency:
.IR anthropic\|>=\|0.50.0 .
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/.venv/
Python virtualenv created by
.BR "make prepare" .
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent/output/
Generated artifacts written by the agent (YAML, XML, .service, .properties).
.TP
.I ~/.singine/decisions/edge\-agent.json
Local governance decision record (offline fallback).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Full workflow from a clean state
.PP
.EX
# 0. Confirm the project location
singine find filesAboutTopic edge\-agent \[rs]
  \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type dir

# 1. Register the work (server must be running; see OFFLINE if not)
singine decide edge\-agent \[rs]
  \-\-decision approve \[rs]
  \-\-reason "Edge agent: Kubernetes/OpenShift/RHEL7/Collibra edge" \[rs]
  \-\-json > ~/.singine/decisions/edge\-agent.json

# 2. Prepare virtualenv and install dependencies
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent prepare

# 3. Validate tools without making an API call
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent validate

# 4. Check status
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent status

# 5. Run the agent with the default task (requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY)
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk\-ant\-...
make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run

# 6. List generated artifacts
singine find filesAboutTopic edge\-agent \[rs]
  \-\-root\-dir ~/ws/git/local/arash \-\-type file \-\-json
.EE
.SS Wrapped in the singine runtime envelope
.PP
.EX
# Prepare
singine runtime exec\-external \[rs]
  make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent prepare

# Validate
singine runtime exec\-external \[rs]
  make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent validate

# Run default task
singine runtime exec\-external \[rs]
  make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent run

# Run custom task
singine runtime exec\-external \[rs]
  make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent \[rs]
  run\-task TASK="Generate SecurityContextConstraints for Collibra edge on RHEL 7.9"
.EE
.SS install target (prepare + governance in one step)
.PP
.EX
singine runtime exec\-external \[rs]
  make \-C ~/ws/git/local/arash/edge\-agent install
.EE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine\-find (1),
.BR singine\-decide (1),
.BR singine\-runtime (1),
.BR singine\-install (1),
.BR singine\-collibra (1),
.BR make (1)
.
.SH PLATFORM NOTES
.TP
.B Target OS
CentOS\|/\|RHEL 7.7, 7.8, 7.9.
Package manager:
.BR yum (1)
(never dnf).
Container runtime: Docker CE (docker\-ce RPM).
.TP
.B Kubernetes
Version \(<=\|1.21.  Installed via kubernetes.io RPM repository
(kubelet, kubeadm, kubectl).
.TP
.B OpenShift
OKD\|/\|OCP 3.11.  API groups:
.IR apps.openshift.io/v1 ,
.IR route.openshift.io/v1 ,
.IR image.openshift.io/v1 ,
.IR security.openshift.io/v1 .
.TP
.B Collibra edge
DGC Edge node.  Requires
.I java\-11\-openjdk .
Default ports: HTTP 7080, HTTPS 7443.
firewalld zone XML generated by
.BR generate_collibra_edge_config .
.TP
.B SELinux
Enforcing mode assumed on all target nodes.  Generated pod specs include
.IR seLinuxOptions.type\|=\|spc_t .
.TP
.B Claude model
.I claude\-opus\-4\-6
with
.IR thinking={\(dqtype\(dq:\(dqadaptive\(dq} .
Streaming enabled; adaptive thinking dynamically controls reasoning depth.
.
.SH AUTHOR
skh <skh@sindoc.io>
.br
singine 0.2.0                     2026\-03\-17              SINGINE\-EDGE\-AGENT(1)
