.TH SINGINE-EDGE 1 "2026-03-17" "singine 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-edge \- build, deploy, and manage the Collibra edge server stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine edge
.I FAMILY
[\fICOMMAND\fR]
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine edge
is the lifecycle management surface for the Collibra edge server stack at
.IR ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge/ .
It manages two complementary deployment modes:
.TP
.B Docker Compose mode (local dev / mock)
Runs a local stack with an nginx CDN, a custom Collibra Edge Site REST server,
and (optionally) a Python mock of the Collibra DGC Edge process.  Suitable for
development and integration testing without a Collibra license or Kubernetes.
.TP
.B Kubernetes mode (real Collibra Edge)
Deploys the official Collibra Edge onto a Kubernetes cluster using the
site-specific installer bundle (
.IR installer/ ).
Communicates with
.I lutino.collibra.com
and registers the site as Installed in the Collibra DGC console.
.PP
The stack root is
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge/
by default.
Override with the environment variable
.BR COLLIBRA_EDGE_DIR .
.SS Docker Compose components
.TP
.B CentOS 7 LTS base image
.RI ( sindoc-collibra-edge-base )
Java 11, EPEL tooling, and a non-root
.I edge
user.  All other compose images derive FROM this base.
.TP
.B Collibra DGC Edge node (mock)
.RI ( sindoc-collibra-edge-mock )
Python 3.11-slim mock of the Collibra DGC Edge process.  Responds to
.I /rest/2.0/ping
and all other DGC REST paths.  Used when
.I collibra-edge.jar
is not available or
.B --dev
is passed.
.TP
.B Edge Site server
.RI ( sindoc-collibra-edge-site )
A lightweight Java 11 HTTP server implementing the Collibra Edge Site REST API
contract
.RI ( /api/edge/v1/\fI*\fR ).
On startup, attempts outbound registration with Collibra DGC cloud via
.IR "POST ${DGC_URL}/rest/2.0/edgeSites/${SITE_ID}/connectionRequests" .
Hosts static web content under
.IR /site/ .
.TP
.B CDN proxy
.RI ( sindoc-collibra-cdn )
nginx TLS-terminating reverse proxy on ports 80 and 443.  Routes
.IR /api/edge/
and
.I /site/
traffic to the edge site server.  In dev mode also routes
.I /rest/
and
.I /graphql/
to the local DGC mock.
.SS Kubernetes components (real Collibra Edge)
The official Collibra Edge installer deploys the following pods into the
.I collibra-edge
namespace:
.TP
.B edge-proxy
Outbound communication proxy from edge to Collibra DGC cloud.
.TP
.B edge-controller
Orchestrates capability execution and job scheduling.
.TP
.B edge-cd
Continuous delivery agent — applies Helm upgrades when Collibra releases a new
edge version.
.TP
.B edge-session-manager
Manages authenticated sessions between edge capabilities and the DGC.
.TP
.B otel-agent
OpenTelemetry collector — ships metrics, logs, and traces to the DGC.
.SH COMMAND FAMILIES
.TP
.B build
Build one or all Docker Compose images.  Delegates to the stack
.BR Makefile .
.TP
.B push
Tag and push images to a container registry.
.TP
.B up / down
Start or stop the compose stack.
.TP
.B logs
Tail compose container log output.
.TP
.B status
Show Docker images, running containers, and governance decision URN.
.TP
.B setup
Full automated compose setup: TLS cert generation, .env creation, JAR build,
image builds, stack start, health wait.  Runs
.IR scripts/setup.sh .
.TP
.B install
Full compose install: build all images, prepare the agent Python virtualenv,
register a governance decision.  Idempotent.
.TP
.B site
Bootstrap a real Collibra Edge site from the installer bundle and verify it.
Primary entry point:
.BR "singine collibra edge site init NAME" .
.TP
.B deploy
.B install
followed by
.BR "up --detach" .
.TP
.B javadoc
Build HTML and XML Javadoc for the Java interface layer
.RI ( edge/java/ ).
.TP
.B k8s
Deploy and manage the
.B real Collibra Edge
on a Kubernetes cluster.  Uses the site-specific installer bundle at
.IR installer/ .
Sub-commands:
.BR prereqs ,
.BR install ,
.BR uninstall ,
.BR status ,
.BR logs .
.TP
.B agent
Manage the Claude API edge-agent that generates Kubernetes, OpenShift, and
Collibra configuration artifacts.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS build
.TP
.B singine edge build [\fB--target\fR \fITARGET\fR] [\fB--tag\fR \fITAG\fR] [\fB--no-cache\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Build container image(s).
.RS
.TP
.B --target \fITARGET\fR
One of
.IR base ,
.IR collibra-edge ,
.IR edge-site ,
.IR cdn ,
.I all
(default:
.IR all ).
.TP
.B --tag \fITAG\fR
Docker image tag.  Default:
.IR local .
.TP
.B --no-cache
Pass
.B --no-cache
to the Docker build.
.TP
.B --json
Emit a JSON envelope with build outcome and metadata.
.RE
.SS push
.TP
.B singine edge push \fB--registry\fR \fIREGISTRY\fR [\fB--target\fR \fITARGET\fR] [\fB--tag\fR \fITAG\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Tag local images and push to a container registry.
.SS up
.TP
.B singine edge up [\fB--detach\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Start the edge stack via
.BR docker\ compose\ up .
.SS down
.TP
.B singine edge down [\fB--json\fR]
Stop and remove all stack containers.
.SS logs
.TP
.B singine edge logs [\fB--service\fR \fISERVICE\fR] [\fB--follow\fR]
Print or tail compose container logs.
.B --service
restricts output to
.IR collibra-edge ,
.IR edge-site ,
or
.IR cdn .
.SS status
.TP
.B singine edge status [\fB--json\fR]
Show a combined view of local Docker images, running compose services, and the
governance decision URN.
.SS setup
.TP
.B singine edge setup [\fB--dev\fR] [\fB--no-start\fR] [\fB--tag\fR \fITAG\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Full automated compose setup.  Generates a self-signed TLS cert, creates
.IR .env ,
builds
.IR edge-site-server.jar ,
builds all Docker images, and starts the stack.
.B --dev
uses the Python mock DGC (auto-enabled when
.I collibra-edge.jar
is absent).
.SS install
.TP
.B singine edge install [\fB--tag\fR \fITAG\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Full install: build all images, prepare the Claude API agent virtualenv, and
register a governance decision.  Idempotent.
.SS deploy
.TP
.B singine edge deploy [\fB--tag\fR \fITAG\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Equivalent to
.B install
followed by
.BR "up --detach" .
.SS site
.TP
.B singine collibra edge site init \fINAME\fR [\fB--edge-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR] [\fB--installer-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR] [\fB--namespace\fR \fINS\fR] [\fB--keep-dev-stack\fR] [\fB--dry-run\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Bootstrap the official Collibra Edge runtime from the installer bundle under
.IR installer/ .
This command:
.RS
.IP 1. 4
Stops any local docker-compose edge stacks unless
.B --keep-dev-stack
is set.
.IP 2. 4
Runs
.BR "singine edge k8s prereqs" .
.IP 3. 4
Runs
.BR "singine edge k8s install" .
.IP 4. 4
Runs
.BR "singine edge k8s status"
and
.BR "singine edge k8s test"
to verify the site is online in Kubernetes.
.RE
The
.I NAME
argument is a local bootstrap label for Singine output; the actual site identity
comes from
.IR installer/site-values.yaml .
.SS javadoc
.TP
.B singine edge javadoc [\fB--json\fR]
Runs
.B ./gradlew alldoc
in
.IR edge/java/ ,
producing:
.IP \(bu 2
.I build/docs/javadoc/
\(em standard HTML Javadoc
.IP \(bu 2
.I build/docs/xmldoc/edge-site-api.xml
\(em XML Javadoc via
.B xmldoclet
(com.github.markusbernhardt:xml-doclet)
.SS k8s
.TP
.B singine edge k8s \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Deploy and manage the real Collibra Edge on Kubernetes using the site-specific
installer bundle at
.IR installer/ .
.RS
.TP
.B prereqs [\fB--json\fR]
Check that all prerequisites are satisfied before attempting an install:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.BR helm ,
.BR kubectl ,
.BR jq ,
.BR yq
are on PATH
.IP \(bu 2
A Kubernetes cluster is reachable (
.BR "kubectl cluster-info" )
.IP \(bu 2
.I installer/site-values.yaml
and
.I installer/collibra-edge-helm-chart/
exist
.RE
If any check fails, the output identifies the missing item and suggests the fix.
For Docker Desktop: Settings \(-> Kubernetes \(-> Enable Kubernetes \(-> Apply & Restart.
.TP
.B install [\fB--dry-run\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Deploy Collibra Edge via
.B scripts/install-edge-k8s.sh
which:
.RS
.IP 1. 4
Creates namespace
.I collibra-edge
.IP 2. 4
Creates the image pull secret
.I edge-repositories
from
.I installer/registries.yaml
(credentials for
.IR edge-docker-delivery.repository.collibra.io )
.IP 3. 4
Applies
.I installer/resources/manifests/edge-secret.yaml
(site-embedded credentials)
.IP 4. 4
Runs
.B helm install
(or
.B helm upgrade
if already installed) with
.I installer/collibra-edge-helm-chart/collibra-edge
and
.I installer/site-values.yaml
.RE
With
.B --dry-run
the Helm chart is rendered and validated but no resources are created.
After the pods reach Running state,
.I lutino.collibra.com
\(-> Settings \(-> Edge Sites \(-> lutino.io.sindoc42
will show status:
.BR Installed .
.TP
.B uninstall [\fB--json\fR]
Run
.B helm uninstall collibra-edge
and delete the
.I collibra-edge
namespace.  All edge pods and configuration are removed.
.TP
.B status [\fB--namespace\fR \fINS\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Show:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Active
.B kubectl
context
.IP \(bu 2
Helm release:
.I collibra-edge
\(em status (DEPLOYED / FAILED / PENDING) and chart version
.IP \(bu 2
All pods in the namespace: name, ready, status, restarts, age
.RE
.TP
.B logs \fICOMPONENT\fR [\fB--follow\fR] [\fB--tail\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--namespace\fR \fINS\fR]
Stream pod logs for a named Collibra Edge component.
.I COMPONENT
is one of:
.RS
.TP
.B edge-proxy
Outbound proxy communications.
.TP
.B edge-controller
Job orchestration and capability execution.
.TP
.B edge-cd
Continuous delivery / auto-upgrade agent.
.TP
.B edge-session-manager
Authenticated session management.
.TP
.B otel-agent
OpenTelemetry collector — metrics, logs, traces.
.RE
.B --follow
.RI ( -f )
streams live output.
.B --tail N
shows the last
.I N
lines (default: 100).
.RE
.SS agent
.TP
.B singine edge agent \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Manage the Claude API edge-agent under
.IR edge/agent/ .
.RS
.TP
.B validate [\fB--json\fR]
Smoke-test all agent tools without making an Anthropic API call.
.TP
.B run \fB--task\fR \fITASK\fR [\fB--output-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Run the agent with a natural-language task.  Requires
.BR ANTHROPIC_API_KEY .
Artifacts are written to
.I edge/agent/output/
by default.
.TP
.B install [\fB--json\fR]
Prepare agent virtualenv and register governance decision.
.TP
.B status [\fB--json\fR]
Print virtualenv path, Python version, package versions, and decision URN.
.RE
.SH EDGE SITE REST API
The edge site server
.RI ( sindoc-collibra-edge-site )
implements the Collibra Edge Site REST API.
.PP
.nf
GET  /health
     {"status":"UP","siteId":"...","registrationState":"...","checkedAt":"..."}

GET  /api/edge/v1/status
     {"siteId":"...","siteName":"...","dgcUrl":"...","status":"READY",
      "registrationState":"...","capabilities":[...],"reportedAt":"..."}

POST /api/edge/v1/register
     Register locally (dev mode).  DGC registration happens automatically
     on startup via DgcRegistrar when COLLIBRA_EDGE_REG_KEY is set.

GET  /api/edge/v1/capabilities
     [{"type":"site","capabilityId":"...","status":"READY","properties":{}}]

POST /api/edge/v1/capabilities/{type}/invoke
     {"invocationId":"...","success":true,"payload":{...},"errorMessage":null}
.fi
.PP
.B Supported capability types
.TP
.B connect
JDBC data source connectivity for on-premises data sampling.
.TP
.B catalog
Asset metadata push to the central Collibra catalog.
.TP
.B lineage
Technical lineage collection from on-premises pipelines.
.TP
.B profiling
On-premises data profiling and classification.
.TP
.B site
Static and dynamic web content served under
.IR /site/ .
.TP
.B workflow
On-premises workflow step execution triggered by Collibra DGC.
.SH JAVA INTERFACE LAYER
The package
.I io.sindoc.collibra.edge
(under
.IR edge/java/ )
defines the complete contract for the edge site and installer.
.PP
.B Core interfaces
.TP
.B EdgeSite
Lifecycle entry point:
.BR initialize() ,
.BR shutdown() ,
.BR getApi() ,
.BR getCapability() .
.TP
.B CollibraEdgeSiteApi
Full REST contract with request/response records.
.TP
.B EdgeSiteCapability
Per-capability lifecycle:
.BR activate() ,
.BR deactivate() ,
.BR invoke() ,
.BR health() .
.TP
.B EdgeSiteHealth
Health aggregation across DGC connectivity and all capabilities.
.TP
.B EdgeSiteRegistry
Cloud registration:
.BR register() ,
.BR deregister() ,
.BR renewToken() .
.TP
.B EdgeSiteServer
HTTP server binding:
.BR start() ,
.BR stop() ,
.BR registerCapabilityHandler() .
.TP
.B EdgeSiteInstaller
K8s installer lifecycle:
.BR install() ,
.BR uninstall() ,
.BR status() ,
.BR checkPrerequisites() ,
.BR waitForHealthy() .
Includes nested types
.BR DeploymentMode
(K3S, HELM_MANAGED_K8S, HELM_OPENSHIFT),
.BR InstallerStatus ,
.BR InstallerResult ,
and
.BR PodStatus .
.PP
.B Build commands
.PP
.nf
./gradlew javadoc     # HTML Javadoc  → build/docs/javadoc/
./gradlew xmldoc      # XML Javadoc   → build/docs/xmldoc/edge-site-api.xml
./gradlew alldoc      # both
./gradlew jar         # compile
singine edge javadoc  # same as ./gradlew alldoc (via singine)
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_DIR
Override the default stack root
.RI ( ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge/ ).
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_HOSTNAME
FQDN of the edge node (e.g.\&
.IR edge.lutino.io ).
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_DGC_URL
Base URL of the Collibra DGC cloud instance (e.g.\&
.IR https://lutino.collibra.com ).
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_SITE_ID
Stable UUID identifier for the edge site.  Shown in the Collibra DGC console
under Settings \(-> Edge Sites.
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_SITE_NAME
Display name shown in the DGC console (e.g.\&
.IR "Lutino.io's Dev Edge Site" ).
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_REG_KEY
Registration key issued by Collibra DGC.  Generate from: Settings \(-> Edge
Sites \(-> \fIsite\fR \(-> Generate Key.  Stored in
.I .env
(gitignored).
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Required by
.BR "singine edge agent run" .
.TP
.B KUBECONFIG
Kubernetes configuration file.  Defaults to
.IR ~/.kube/config .
Used by all
.B k8s
sub-commands.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge/
Stack root.  All relative paths below are within this directory.
.TP
.I Makefile
Build/deploy/clean targets including
.BR edge-install ,
.BR edge-install-dry-run ,
.BR edge-uninstall .
.TP
.I docker-compose.yml
Production compose stack (real collibra-edge + edge-site + cdn).
.TP
.I docker-compose.dev.yml
Development compose stack (Python mock DGC + edge-site + cdn).
.TP
.I docker-compose.cloud.yml
Cloud-connected compose stack (edge-site + cdn, DGC_URL → lutino.collibra.com).
.TP
.I .env
Runtime environment variables.  Copy from
.I .env.example
and set
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_REG_KEY
before running in cloud mode.  Gitignored.
.TP
.I installer/
Site-specific Collibra Edge installer bundle.  Extracted from the TGZ
downloaded at: lutino.collibra.com \(-> Settings \(-> Edge Sites \(-> Download Installer.
Contains
.IR site-values.yaml ,
.IR registries.yaml ,
.IR properties.yaml ,
.IR collibra-edge-helm-chart/ ,
and
.IR edge-cd-helm-chart/ .
Gitignored (contains embedded site credentials).
.TP
.I scripts/install-edge-k8s.sh
Kubernetes install script.  Invoked by
.BR "singine edge k8s install" .
.TP
.I scripts/setup.sh
Docker Compose setup script.  Invoked by
.BR "singine edge setup" .
.TP
.I image/base/Dockerfile
CentOS 7 LTS base: Java 11, EPEL, non-root
.I edge
user (uid 10000).
.TP
.I image/edge-site/Dockerfile
Collibra-compatible edge site server.
.TP
.I image/cdn/Dockerfile
nginx CDN with TLS termination.
.TP
.I java/
Java interface layer
.RI ( io.sindoc.collibra.edge ).
.TP
.I java/build.gradle
Gradle build: standard javadoc + xmldoclet XML output.
.TP
.I agent/
Claude API edge-agent.
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.B Before singine edge setup / build / up
Docker must be installed and running.
.TP
.B Before singine edge k8s install
.RS
.IP 1. 4
.B Docker Desktop Kubernetes
enabled: Docker Desktop \(-> Settings \(-> Kubernetes \(-> Enable Kubernetes \(-> Apply & Restart.
.IP 2. 4
.BR helm ,
.BR jq ,
.BR yq
installed (
.B singine edge k8s prereqs
installs missing tools via
.BR brew ).
.IP 3. 4
Installer bundle extracted to
.IR installer/
(download TGZ from lutino.collibra.com \(-> Settings \(-> Edge Sites \(-> Download Installer).
.IP 4. 4
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_REG_KEY
set in
.I .env
(generated from the same page).
.IP 5. 4
Outbound port 443 access to
.I lutino.collibra.com
and
.IR edge-docker-delivery.repository.collibra.io .
.RE
.TP
.B Before singine edge agent run
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
must be set to a valid Anthropic API key.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Check K8s prerequisites (installs helm/jq/yq via brew if missing).
singine edge k8s prereqs

# Dry-run the Helm install — renders charts without touching the cluster.
singine edge k8s install --dry-run

# Deploy the real Collibra Edge onto Docker Desktop Kubernetes.
singine edge k8s install

# Monitor pods coming up.
singine edge k8s status
singine edge k8s status --json

# Stream edge-proxy logs.
singine edge k8s logs edge-proxy --follow

# Tear down the Kubernetes installation.
singine edge k8s uninstall

# Local dev compose stack (no license needed, Python mock DGC).
singine edge setup --dev

# Cloud-connected compose stack (requires COLLIBRA_EDGE_REG_KEY in .env).
singine edge setup

# Build only the CDN image with a release tag.
singine edge build --target cdn --tag v1.2.0

# Push all images to a private registry.
singine edge push --registry registry.example.com --tag v1.2.0

# Build HTML + XML Javadoc for the Java interface layer.
singine edge javadoc

# Generate a Kubernetes Deployment for Collibra edge on RHEL 7.9.
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
singine edge agent run \\
  --task "Generate a Collibra edge Deployment and firewalld zone for RHEL 7.9" \\
  --output-dir /tmp/edge-out
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-edge-agent (1),
.BR singine-domain (1),
.BR singine-decide (1),
.BR singine-runtime (1),
.BR docker-compose (1),
.BR helm (1),
.BR kubectl (1)
