.TH SINGINE-TEMPLATE 1 "2026-03-17" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
singine-template \- generate Singine-aware Maven and npm project templates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine template create
\fBmaven\fR|\fBnpm\fR \fINAME\fR
[\fB--dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--description\fR \fITEXT\fR]
[\fB--version\fR \fIVERSION\fR]
[\fB--force\fR]
[\fB--json\fR]
.PP
.B singine template create maven
\fINAME\fR
[\fB--group-id\fR \fIGROUP\fR]
[\fB--artifact-id\fR \fIARTIFACT\fR]
[\fB--package-name\fR \fIPACKAGE\fR]
[\fB--java-version\fR \fIRELEASE\fR]
.PP
.B singine template create npm
\fINAME\fR
[\fB--package-name\fR \fIPACKAGE\fR]
[\fB--scope\fR \fISCOPE\fR]
[\fB--module-type\fR \fBmodule\fR|\fBcommonjs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates a standard project skeleton that is immediately compatible with
either
.BR mvn (1)
or
.BR npm (1),
while also including a small Singine integration surface in the generated
README and scripts.
.PP
The
.B maven
template creates:
.IP \(bu 2
\fIpom.xml\fR with compiler, surefire, and exec plugins
.IP \(bu 2
\fIsrc/main/java\fR and \fIsrc/test/java\fR trees
.IP \(bu 2
\fIREADME.md\fR and \fI.gitignore\fR
.PP
The
.B npm
template creates:
.IP \(bu 2
\fIpackage.json\fR with standard
.B start
and
.B test
scripts
.IP \(bu 2
\fIsrc/\fR and \fItest/\fR trees
.IP \(bu 2
\fIREADME.md\fR and \fI.gitignore\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --dir \fIPATH\fR
Directory where the template should be created. If omitted, Singine creates a
new project directory derived from the generated artifact or package name under
the current working directory. If you pass
.B --dir .
explicitly, Singine scaffolds into the current working directory instead of
creating a nested project directory.
.TP
.B --description \fITEXT\fR
Project description embedded in generated metadata files.
.TP
.B --version \fIVERSION\fR
Project version. Default is
.IR 0.1.0-SNAPSHOT
for Maven templates and
.IR 0.1.0
for npm templates when not explicitly overridden.
.TP
.B --force
Overwrite existing files in the target directory.
.TP
.B --json
Emit the generated file list and derived metadata as JSON.
.TP
.B --group-id \fIGROUP\fR
Maven
.B groupId
value. Only used with the
.B maven
template.
.TP
.B --artifact-id \fIARTIFACT\fR
Maven
.B artifactId
value. Only used with the
.B maven
template.
.TP
.B --package-name \fINAME\fR
Java package name for Maven templates or package name for npm templates.
.TP
.B --java-version \fIRELEASE\fR
Java language level for the Maven compiler plugin. Default is
.IR 17 .
.TP
.B --scope \fISCOPE\fR
npm scope, without the leading
.BR @ .
Hyphens are preserved, so
.B --scope my-team
produces package names such as
.BR @my-team/silkpage-ui .
.TP
.B --module-type \fBmodule\fR|\fBcommonjs\fR
JavaScript module format for the npm template. Default is
.BR module .
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
singine template create maven singine-spec-demo \\
  --dir ~/ws/git/local/singine-spec-demo \\
  --group-id com.markupware \\
  --artifact-id singine-spec-demo

singine template create npm silkpage-spec-ui \\
  --dir ~/ws/git/local/silkpage-spec-ui \\
  --scope sindoc

mkdir ~/ws/git/local/silkpage-app && cd ~/ws/git/local/silkpage-app
singine template create npm "Silkpage App" \\
  --dir . \\
  --scope my-team

singine template create npm singine-dashboard \\
  --module-type commonjs --json
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine-man (1),
.BR singine-install (1),
.BR mvn (1),
.BR npm (1)
