.TH SINGINE\-JAVA 1 "2026\-03\-22" "singine 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-java \- resolve and manage Java runtime versions under Singine governance
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine runtime java
.I COMMAND
.RI [ ARGS ]
.PP
.B singine runtime java list
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.B singine runtime java inspect
.RI [ DIR ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.B singine runtime java env
.RI [ ALIAS ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.PP
.B singine runtime java install
.I ALIAS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine runtime java
is the Singine-controlled Java version resolver, exposed as a subcommand of
.BR "singine runtime" .
It reads the Singine Java Runtime Registry
.RI ( runtime/java/registry.json )
and reports or prepares the correct SDKMAN distribution for the current project
or a given alias.
.PP
Applications declare their required Java version via the
.B :java
key in a
.B reqs.singine
file at the project root.
Singine resolves that alias to an SDKMAN distribution identifier.
.PP
Because Java activation modifies shell environment variables
.RB ( JAVA_HOME ,
.BR PATH ),
which cannot be done from a subprocess, the
.B env
subcommand prints
.B export
statements for evaluation by the calling shell:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
eval "$(singine runtime java env)"
.EE
.RE
.PP
The shell integration in
.I runtime/java/shell-integration.sh
performs this evaluation automatically on
.BR cd .
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Print all aliases registered in the registry — SDKMAN ID, major version,
distribution, status, and the application map.
.TP
.B inspect \fR[\fIDIR\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR]
Show the alias, SDKMAN ID, status, installation state, and resolution source for
.I DIR
(defaults to the current directory).
Resolution source is one of
.IR reqs.singine ,
.IR application-map ,
or
.IR policy-default .
.TP
.B env \fR[\fIALIAS\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR]
Print
.B export
statements for
.B JAVA_HOME
and
.B PATH
for the resolved alias.
If
.I ALIAS
is omitted, resolves from the current directory.
Intended for shell
.BR eval :
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
eval "$(singine runtime java env lts)"
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B install \fIALIAS\fR
Install the SDKMAN distribution for a registry alias.
Calls
.B sdk install java <sdkman-id>
via a sourced SDKMAN shell.
.
.SH RESOLUTION ORDER
.IP "1." 4
.B reqs.singine
\(em the
.B :java
key in the project-root
.B reqs.singine
file.
.IP "2." 4
.B application-map
\(em the
.I application_map
table in
.IR runtime/java/registry.json ,
keyed by directory base name.
.IP "3." 4
.B policy default
\(em the
.I policy.default
alias from
.IR runtime/java/registry.json .
Currently
.IR lts .
.
.SH REGISTRY
.TP
.B SINGINE_REGISTRY
Full path to the registry JSON file. Highest priority override.
.TP
.B SINGINE_ROOT
Root of the
.I singine-personal-os
checkout; registry is resolved at
.IR $SINGINE_ROOT/runtime/java/registry.json .
.TP
.B SDKMAN_DIR
Override the SDKMAN home (default:
.IR ~/.sdkman ).
.PP
Status values in the registry:
.RS
.TP
.I active
Recommended — default for new projects.
.TP
.I permitted
Allowed — for specific legacy or toolchain integrations.
.TP
.I preview
Experimental — use with care.
.RE
.
.SH REQS.SINGINE
Per-project Java version is declared in
.B reqs.singine
at the project root using EDN/Clojure map syntax:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
{:java "lts"}
.EE
.RE
.PP
.B reqs.singine
is the Singine source of truth for all project runtime requirements.
Python packages listed under
.B :python-packages
are used to generate
.BR requirements.txt .
A template is provided at
.IR $SINGINE_ROOT/runtime/java/reqs.singine.example .
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I runtime/java/registry.json
Authoritative registry of permitted Java versions and resolution policy.
.TP
.I runtime/java/policy.sinlisp
Singine rules governing resolution order and constraints.
.TP
.I runtime/java/shell-integration.sh
Shell hooks for automatic per-directory version switching on
.BR cd .
.TP
.I runtime/java/reqs.singine.example
Template
.B reqs.singine
for new projects.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS List all registry aliases
.EX
singine runtime java list
.EE
.SS Inspect what Java a project would use
.EX
singine runtime java inspect ~/ws/git/local/collibra\-cli
.EE
.SS Activate in the current shell
.EX
eval "$(singine runtime java env)"
.EE
.SS Activate a specific alias
.EX
eval "$(singine runtime java env lts\-prev)"
.EE
.SS Install a distribution
.EX
singine runtime java install graal
.EE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine (1),
.BR singine\-runtime (1),
.BR singine\-platform (1),
.BR sdk (1)
.
.SH AUTHOR
skh <skh@sindoc.io>
singine 0.2.0                     2026-03-22              SINGINE-JAVA(1)
